Netscape 6 : A Work in Progress

Producing a major update to the browser that helped launch the Web has proven a difficult labor for Netscape .
Last year the company decided to toss out the spaghetti code that was going to be Navigator 5 , and started over to build Netscape 6 around a new rendering engine code-named Gecko that would include contributions from open-source developers .
Since that time , America Online acquired the browser-side of the company , and its server-side initiatives are tied to Sun Microsystems .
Disruption on that scale tends to really hurt a company 's development efforts .
That said , its not surprising that Netscape 6 Preview Release 1 is very much a work in progress .
The browser , which was introduced last week at Spring Internet World , has some basic stability problems that need to be addressed before it 's ready for everyday use .
Preview Release 1 is far from feature complete .
Netscape is more concerned with users test driving what 's under the hood than what 's built around it .
As a result , there 's a lot of basic features missing , including keyboard commands , a history of Web sites you visited , and the auto-completion of Web addresses .
You can n't even navigate backwards or forwards with the keyboard .
The company instead focused on making its rendering engine compatible with emerging Internet standards .
Netscape 6 supports Extensible Markup Language , Cascading Style Sheets 1 , and HTML 4.0 .
XML
CSS1
There 's also partial support of CSS2 and 3 , the Document Object Model , JavaScript 1.5 and Java 2 .
DOM
It 's supposed to be Java compliant , but not all Java-based chat rooms , such as the one on Net radio station KNAC.com , work .
Netscape 6 is a rather slow browser .
the Communicator and Navigator monikers that accompanied previous versions have been dropped
At the Internet World introduction , Netscape made a big deal touting how quickly pages loaded , but their demo loaded files that were cached on the PC .
The browser is only slightly faster than previous version Navigator 4.72 when pulling pages off the Web , but it 's clearly not in the league of Internet Explorer 5.01 .
Although text-heavy sites load quickly as expected , sites with substantial graphics such as CNBC can cause it to choke , even on a cable modem connection .


Judge 's Conclusion : MS Guilty

Microsoft repeatedly violated U.S. antitrust laws , a federal judge ruled in a far-reaching decision that promises to reshape the computer industry and weaken the software company 's dominance in the personal computer field .
U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson said in his decision released Monday that by using " technological shackles " to keep rival products from effectively competing with its Internet Explorer browser , Microsoft ran afoul of the Sherman Act 's restrictions on anti-competitive conduct .
MSFT
Jackson 's stinging 102 KB denunciation of Microsoft 's conduct during the late 1990s presages a potentially severe punishment during the next phase of the trial , which could range from restrictions on contracts Microsoft signs to a breakup of the world 's largest software company .
Calling Microsoft 's activities repeatedly " predacious , " Jackson said it " paid vast sums of money , and renounced many millions more in lost revenue every year , in order to induce firms to take actions that would help enhance Internet Explorer 's share of browser usage at Navigator 's expense . "
The ruling surprised few observers , least of all Microsoft , which promised to appeal Jackson 's decision .
" Today 's ruling was not unexpected ... but there are several steps ahead in this case , " Microsoft chairman Bill Gates said during a news conference .
" We believe we have a strong case on appeal , " Gates said .
During a news conference in Washington , Attorney General Janet Reno said " we are pleased that the court agreed with the Department of Justice . "
" It will benefit America 's consumers by opening the door to competition , " added Assistant Attorney General Joel Klein .
Klein said the Justice Department had not yet reached a decision on what punishment to ask the judge to levy .
Jackson 's order was silent on the issue , saying that he will " enter an order with respect to appropriate relief ... following proceedings to be established by further Order of the Court . "
Jackson handed a copy of his ruling to both sides on Monday before he gave it to the general public at 5 p.m. EDT , and Microsoft provided details to its allies during a conference call earlier in the day .
During that call , Microsoft representatives asked conservative and free-market groups for their help in rallying support against the ruling .
Just minutes after the decision 's release , one Republican legislator found something to complain about .
" Microsoft is right to appeal this ruling .
The government 's case stands on the shifting sands of a rapidly changing marketplace , " said House Majority Leader Dick Armey . "
Dwelling on the past only prevents the development of new technologies that bring benefits to consumers . "
Liberal activist Ralph Nader saw it differently .
" Microsoft has illegally crushed innovative competitors and harmed consumers .
The company has shown its contempt for any court-imposed changes in its conduct , " Nader said . "
The court must break up this monopoly corporation . "
Microsoft 's loss during this key round likely will embolden competitors and foreshadow a new wave of private antitrust suits that promise to distract the company 's management for years to come .
At the end of the trading day , Microsoft shares were at 90-7/8 , down 15-3/8 .
The Nasdaq index was down a record 349 points .




Mobile E-Biz = Privacy Issues

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
As major players team on a framework for securing Internet transactions over cellphones , analysts said users are not convinced that those phones are ready for primetime Net use .
Tuesday 's announcement that Ericsson , Motorola , and Nokia plan to jointly develop an open , standardized industry framework for secure mobile electronic transactions had analysts questioning when and how it will be implemented .
Since each company mentioned the possibility of using wireless phones to process payments at cash registers , ticket offices , toll booths , or parking meters , Evan Conklin of Anderson Consulting said he would like to see some information on how transactions on these devices will be protected .
" For example , if my credit card number is stolen I am not liable for charges over $ 50 , " he said . "
I wouldn&rsquo;t buy anything with a phone that didn&rsquo;t offer the same protections . "
Officials from the three companies would not comment on specific plans .
They did , however , say they plan to develop existing technologies that will positively identify sent data as coming from a specific user .
They also want to use wireless Public Key encryption technologies .
Detailed information on the companies plans is expected to be posted on their respective websites in late May , a spokesman said .
RSA Security and Compaq also Tuesday announced a partnership to develop and offer a twice-as-fast encryption technology .
MultiPrime , as it 's called , is aimed at developers of mobile phones , pocket PCs , and personal digital assistants .
Their solution depends on a key-based encryption plan to protect data .
Because many of these partnerships hinge on using cellphone transactions as a replacement for credit or debit card transactions , Conklin said , privacy is a major concern .
" These devices will be able to collect and share much more information about you and your habits then your Web browser can , " he said .
Bob Martin of Manhattan based E-Com , a business communications consulting firm said that while people are beginning to get comfortable with using the Internet for shopping , they are less comfortable doing such things on their phones .
He said part of the problem is the small form factor of the new Web-ready phones .
" Many of us have lost a cell phone , or lent the phone to someone , " Martin said . "
One of my clients threw his phone out of his taxi window when a deal went bad . "
Admitting that users do n't normally lend , lose , or toss out a personal computer , Martin said , " you first need to talk about what will protect any stored data that might be held on that phone . "




Confab Highlights Biotech Surge

BOSTON -- The week-long Bio2000 conference , one of the largest international biotechnology events ever , set records for both attendance at the conference and attendance by protesters .
Close to 8,000 biotechnology industry representatives attended the convention here .
On Sunday , an estimated 2,500 demonstrators gathered in Copley Square for BioDevastation 2000 , a four-hour rally and march protesting the growing influence of biotechnology in society .
The biotech industry has shown remarkable expansion in the past few years .
Biotech stocks now compete with Internet stocks as the Wall Street darlings of potential earnings growth .
As it has grown , the industry has attracted some unwanted attention .
Chiefly vilified is the Monsanto Corporation , makers of Bt corn , a genetically modified food plant that produces a bacterial toxin in its leaves that is harmful to insect pests .
But the toxin is also produced in the pollen of the plants , where it has been shown to harm the larvae of monarch butterflies in laboratory tests .
This unanticipated side effect has put Monsanto on the defensive , and the company has launched a marketing blitz promoting the safety of its products .
Other Monsanto biotech crops are genetically engineered to tolerate the Monsanto herbicide RoundUp , a move calculated to allow the company to sell more of the product , but one which has drawn strong criticism from environmentalists and pure foods groups .


Gore Drives Green Cars

WASHINGTON , DC -- They are pretty , powerful , and fuel-efficient -- and entirely out of your price range .
The three high-tech concept cars paraded before reporters in Washington , DC Thursday , packed with the latest in lightweight materials and fuel saving " clean diesel " engines , were a testament to the achievements of a seven-year collaboration between automakers , federal agencies , and research labs .
But they will not be appearing in showrooms anytime soon .
" None of us can afford any of these vehicles , we ought to be honest about that , " said Harry Pearce , vice chairman of General Motors .
GM , along with Ford Motor Company and Daimler Chrysler Corporation , have been participating in the Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles , a multimillion dollar research and development effort sponsored by the federal government .
PNGV
This year marks the target for the Partnership 's first set of goals : concept models of family sized cars achieving up to 80 miles to a gallon of gas .
Today , the Big Three auto manufacturers unveiled their concept cars -- the Dodge ESX3 , the Ford Prodigy , and the GM Precept .
Each achieves much higher gas mileage than the average conventional car , as well as low exhaust emissions .
Because the automakers worked together to arrive at a basic concept for a fuel-efficient vehicle , each car uses essentially the same drive train .
The cars feature hybrid diesel-electric drives , combining a low emissions diesel engine , electric motor , and a battery that captures and stores the energy released by the car 's braking system .
Two of the cars -- the ESX3 and Prodigy -- achieve 72 miles per gallon gasoline equivalency , or 80 mpg of diesel .
The Precept gets 90 mpg of diesel , the equivalent of 80 mpg of gasoline .
All three aim to meet Tier 2 emissions standards , announced last December by President Bill Clinton and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency .
These regulations , which will be phased in between 2004 and 2009 , mandate very low levels of tailpipe emissions of hydrocarbons , nitrogen oxides , and particulate matter .
The regulations are significantly more stringent than the Tier 1 standards that were in place when PNGV was launched , or when the Partnership completed its initial technology phase in 1997 .
Innovative lighting systems and materials further reduce the vehicles ' weight and energy use .
On board cameras replacing rear-view and side-view mirrors eliminate blind spots and reduce drag on the vehicle .
The cars approach , or in some cases exceed , other PNGV requirements , including their range on a tank of gas , aerodynamics , and safety standards .
In fact , they could become even more fuel-efficient .
They are designed to " drop in " hydrogen powered fuel cells , which would eliminate the use of gasoline or diesel .
Pearce said the fuel cell version of the Precept would get the " composite fuel economy " equivalent of 108 mpg .
Vice President Al Gore applauded the PNGV achievements at the ceremony unveiling the vehicles . "
Energy-efficient cars will dramatically reduce our dependence on foreign oil .
Right now , millions of Americans are paying higher gas prices , " Gore said .
The cars show that " environmentally friendly technology does not have to mean asking customers to compromise their vehicle wants and needs , " said Ford Chief of Staff John Rintimaki .
But Gore admitted that " there are some practical challenges just ahead , " in actually bringing these cars to market .
The automakers used every piece of new technology at their disposal to meet the 2000 deadline for producing an 80 mpg car , and much of that technology is far too expensive to be mass marketed .
" To be intellectually honest about this , the bottom line is we 've got to have real impact environmentally , and the only way you get there is high volume of vehicles in the hands of consumers , on our roadways , " said Pearce . "
It does no good to produce concept vehicles , and have PR events , if these technologies do not end up in high volume production . "
" And the three companies , I can assure you , are absolutely committed to taking these technologies and finding appropriate applications across our product lines , " Pearce said .
Ford plans to begin building a hybrid electric family sedan for the mass market in 2003 .
The other automakers plan to meet the PNGV goal of an 80 mpg vehicle by 2004 .
" The real proof in the pudding will be whether we can get these technologies in high volume production , " said Pearce .
Some environmental groups have trouble understanding the delay .
Katherine Silverthorne , staff attorney for the U.S. Public Interest Research Group , said in a statement released today , " The Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles has funneled more than a billion taxpayer dollars to the Big Three automakers to produce a production prototype " supercar " by 2003 .
US PIRG
Meanwhile , Honda and Toyota , neither of which received any of this funding are already selling vehicles that get 70 miles per gallon . "


GPS Tracks Grannies in Tokyo

Japanese companies have solved the problem of straying senior citizens -- track them by satellite .
A device for finding old people unable to take care of themselves uses a satellite-based global positioning system and a cellular phone network .
Local governments in Tokyo and Kikuchi City plan to test the device , developed by a group led by trading house Mitsui and Company . "
We are definitely expecting a market to develop for the system , " a Mitsui spokesman said .
A transmitter attached to the body or on clothing beams coordinates of the person to a local server .
Concerned relatives just need to send a request by portable terminal and up pops the runaway 's location on a computerized map .
Systems already exist in Japan for finding lost people but they rely on technology for personal " handyphones " -- a type of mobile phone -- and do not work well if the escapee jumps on a train or takes to the mountains .
And the idea is not simply pie in the sky , given the graying of Japan 's population .
Already there are an estimated 1.88 million elderly people in Japan suffering various degrees of senility .
The device will be tested later this year with a planned launch in early 2001 .




Web Closed Captioning Simplified

A new freeware tool allows creators of streaming audio and video to make their websites more accessible to the sight- and hearing-impaired by adding captions and subtitles , as well as voice-over descriptions of images , to Web-based multimedia and CD-ROMs .
The Media Access Generator , nicknamed MAGpie , was released last week by the National Center for Accessible Media at WGBH-TV in Boston .
" There 's no other utility available that allows users to automate the &#91;captioning&#93 ; process , " said MAGpie project manager Geoff Freed . "
Before MAGpie , if you wanted to add captions , you had to type in formatting codes and timecodes .
To caption a 10-minute clip , it took two to three hours .
With MAGpie 's automation , it takes about 30 to 40 minutes . "
MAGpie , a PC-only application , supports the most popular media streaming technologies , including RealNetworks , Windows Media , and QuickTime .
Developers import the text to be captioned into MAGpie , and have the option of changing fonts or adding color .
MAGpie drops in the text or voiceover and automatically assigns the timecodes to the captions .
It then saves the merged files in the popular streaming formats .
" I tried to code before MAGpie , but it was way too difficult , " said Jeff Pledger , president and CEO of AbleTV.net , a network of programming for the disabled .
Pledger , a blind Web developer , said that while entering the text to create the captioned video streams may be time-consuming , it " provides access where there was none before . "
" We know how difficult it is to get people to pay attention to accessibility on the Web , and part of that difficulty is &#91;that&#93 ; making websites accessible takes a lot of time , " said Chuck Hitchcock , chief technology officer at the Center for Applied Special Technology . "
Every tool that makes it easier for developers to make media accessible is of a great benefit to disabled persons . "
Twenty-two million people in the United States are deaf or hearing-impaired , but NCAM believes the audience for MAGpie may be even greater .


Random House Makes Web Deal

The barriers to becoming a published author were broken down a little further Monday as a traditional book publishing giant invested in an online publishing services provider .
Random House Ventures , a division of New York-based book publishing giant Random House Inc. , announced it has taken a significant minority stake in Xlibris.com .
Terms of the deal were not disclosed .
Philadelphia-based Xlibris , which currently offers services for authors to publish e-books , hardcovers , and trade paperbacks , also announced plans for an author-centric website .
The site will provide writers with member home pages , chat rooms , forums , message boards , and writers ' workshops .
It will also help writers find freelance editors and extensive design services .
Xlibris also said it will offer its services for free and with no restrictions on exclusivity of rights .
" Because of this investment , we will now be able to take care of authors at a level that no one ever dreamed of before , " said John Feldcamp , CEO of Xlibris.com .
Random House officials said they will not be mining the offerings at Xlibris for undiscovered writers .
And Xlibris will continue to work with other publishers .
" We are currently in talks with several major traditional publishing houses .
When we have a special book we are going to get it to the right people .
That 's something we owe our authors , " said Feldcamp .
Book industry estimates claim that half a million books will reach the market in 2001 .
Online marketers , authors , and publishing companies are now looking for new ways to introduce those books to the reading public .
The Internet book explosion is fueling some of the growth .
There are now books available in every format , written by every kind of writer , covering every topic .
Random House 's stake in Xlibris is yet another step in the book industry 's search for a solution to returns and warehousing costs .
There has never been a way to successfully estimate how many copies of a title will sell , so publishers are forced to estimate the demand .
If sales fall short , store owners return the unsold titles , which the publishing house then remainders at a loss .


A High-End Learning Portal

Sorting through the wealth of education courses and materials on the Internet to find reliable information may seem like an unfathomable task .
A new knowledge venture is uniting some of the most prestigious universities and cultural institutions worldwide to address one of the greatest challenges in distance learning : finding a reputable online education .
Rather than creating just another distance-learning site , Fathom CEO Ann Kirschner wants to develop a new category of knowledge on the Internet : " E2C " or " Education to Consumer " e-commerce .
Fathom will offer its own college courses as well as those from other colleges and universities .
It will go beyond traditional course offerings , however , by integrating content from museum exhibitions , lectures , reference books , interviews , and documents -- from Frank Lloyd Wright interviews to a multimedia-infused presentation of the Magna Carta .
Columbia University initiated the for-profit partnership with the London School of Economics , Cambridge University Press , the New York Public Library , the British Library , and the Smithsonian 's National Museum of Natural History .
Fathom 's timing may be right for universities that are watching their faculty being lured away by Internet companies and view the venture as a way to provide online opportunities at home .
" It was important for Columbia to have this identity on the Web , " said Columbia University President George Rupp . "
We felt it was important for us to be positioned on the Internet as a provider of high-end knowledge . "
In forming the online venture , " we were playing both offense and defense , " Rupp said . "
We wanted to give our faculty the opportunity to communicate with larger numbers of people . "
Viewers will be able to access information that has never been available outside the participating institutions .
While much of the site will be available for free , some content , such as courses and books , will be accessible for a fee .


Clarke 's Odyssey to 2036

It 's hard not to like a book written by two science fiction heavyweights that is playful enough to imagine that , come 2036 , the U.N. secretary general will be a former Spice Girl .
And that spying on her undressing , using mind-boggling technology , will attract a worldwide audience of 1 billion .
In The Light of Other Days , Arthur C. Clarke and Stephen Baxter come up with a lively -- if flawed -- yarn that should please Clarke 's fans and remind us that forward-looking fiction may have more of a place than ever in the Internet age .
Hiram Patterson , the cartoonish greedy businessman at the center of the story , believes deeply in the power of gadgets to change how we live .
" Once it was the wheel , agriculture , iron-making -- inventions that took thousands of years to spread around the planet , " he says . "
But now it takes a generation or less .
...
When I was a kid computers were giant walk-in wardrobes served by a priesthood with punch cards .
Now we all spend half our lives plugged into SoftScreens .
And my gadget is going to top them all . "
This gadget is a WormCam that manipulates time-space wormholes to look anywhere at all -- Mars , the private offices of presidents or Mafiosi -- and also any time in the past .
As the story develops , it becomes clear the WormCam is meant both as a riff on the groundbreaking theoretical physics of Stephen Hawking and a kind of metaphor for declining privacy .
As the authors acknowledge in a frank afterword , there is nothing breathtakingly new about the idea of a time-viewer through which an observer could watch , for example , as his own parents engaged in the conjugal act that produced the observer .
Others have explored it before .
And as a novel , the book is at times almost formulaic , pitting Hiram against his sons and a reporter named Kate Manzoni who is predictably , spectacularly beautiful .
But in its thoughtful musing on the role of media intrusiveness multiplied wildly beyond our context , the book performs a useful service .
it 's one thing to hear about " cigar tricks " in the White House , quite another to watch them in real time
Since media critics themselves are woefully lacking in perspective on the sweeping changes afoot , maybe it 's fitting that the role of wondering where media culture is going falls to the man who gave us HAL the computer .
Possibilities for mindplay abound .
Did Moses actually exist ?
Who really painted the Mona Lisa ?
Did Jesus Christ ever set foot on the British Isles ?
And in one dazzling sequence : What was the evolutionary route tracing back from contemporary Homo sapiens to the green algae that spawned us ?
Through it all , Baxter and Clarke , author of such classics as 2001 : A Space Odyssey and Rendezvous With Rama , wander as storytellers .
Manzoni comes and goes from the story in a way that gives the book a slapdash feel .
There are far too many references to certain people looking rat-like , and some of the descriptions of looking back into time are just plain hard to follow .
But the book is consistent in understanding its focus , which is the loss of innocence that comes with technology -- specifically , technology telling us more and more about what actually happens and what did happen , and forcing us to part with more and more illusions .
If a modern president like Bill Clinton has more of his dirty laundry aired in public than any predecessor , what about taking a coldly accurate look backward at , say , Abraham Lincoln ?


Mattel Learns Its Lesson

If Mattel has learned anything from its year-long ownership of the Learning Co. software business , it 's that you cut your losses and move on .
Mattel , which does a lot better making Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels than overseeing software development , said Monday that it is putting the Learning Co. -- which it acquired last May for $ 3.5 billion -- up for sale .
The acquisition proved to be disastrous for Mattel .
The Learning Co. racked up big losses , driving Mattel 's stock down sharply and contributing to the resignation of Jill Barad , the company 's former chairwoman and CEO .
Credit Suisse First Boston has been retained to handle the sale , and Mattel is hoping to get between $ 500 million and $ 1 billion for the white elephant , depending whether certain licensing rights are included , The Wall Street Journal reported .
Mattel 's directors have made it clear that they do not intend to include control of any Mattel brands in the deal .
- - -
Breaking the barrier : America Online is the first Internet company to join the ranks of the Fortune 500 , the annual list of top companies compiled by Fortune magazine .
AOL is ranked 337th on a list that features a number of technology companies , including Dell , Microsoft , and Cisco .
56th
84th
146th
All those little startups that are making instant millionaires out of stock-options holders were nowhere to be seen .
Meanwhile , biotechnology landed a company on the list for the first time as well .
Amgen Inc. made it at 463 .
The Fortune 500 is still heavily dominated by the more traditional , so-called brick-and-mortar companies , the kind of firms that actually make things .
- - -
He 's ba-a-a-ck : Michael Milken , the former junk-bond king who went away on a federal vacation after running afoul of the law , is focused on the Internet these days .
Knowledge Universe , partly owned by Milken , bought 12 percent of Britain 's Paradigm Media Investments .
Knowledge already owns a major stake in Spring Group , a British technology firm .
Daniel Levy , Paradigm 's chairman , welcomed the move .
" Knowledge Universe has an impressive record and a strong board , and we believe Paradigm will undoubtedly benefit from its technology , Internet , and investment expertise , " he said in a statement .
- - -
Nokia 's big deal : The Finnish telecom equipment maker said Monday that it has landed one of its largest deals ever , a $ 500 million agreement with U.S. vendor WoiceStream for GSM handsets and network expansion .
Nokia will expand VoiceStream 's GSM 1900 network , which will allow VoiceStream to provide WAP-based mobile Internet services to its subscribers .
Global System for Mobile Communications
- - -
Briefly told : Nextel Communications unveiled Worldwide , a dual-mode iDEN/GSM digital wireless network that will serve the United States and 65 other countries .
...
EMI , the British music group , and GlobalNet Systems , a U.S. Internet TV specialist , will provide an on-demand , pay-to-use media programming service over the Net .
...
NBCi said Monday that it will buy privately held Flyswat , which links Internet content and commerce services , for $ 70 million in stock .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Suburban Fantasy in Your PC

For almost 1 million people , there is no bigger thrill than a computer game that makes them take out the trash , pay their bills , and spend another day at their boring jobs .
But many of these gamers say they play the reality-based The Sims because it lets them do things they never could do in real life , helping make the game one of the most popular to come out in a long time .
" A PC title rarely crosses the million sales mark .
Only one game did it last year .
The Sims is on its way to hitting a million in a few months , " said Christian Svensson , editor of the gaming trade magazine MCV . "
The hook of the game is that players get do things with these little people that they 'd like to do in real life , but can n't . "
Like customizing who they are , for starters .
Players begin the game by designing their characters ' appearance -- T-shirt or power suit , ethnic or white .
Then the character 's psyche -- charming or churlish , recluse or Clintonesque .
Once these parameters are set , the pixilated personas are moved into a suburban neighborhood , where players help them furnish their homes , find jobs , and interact with the folks down the street .
Players can control the Sims ' every action -- what they eat , when they sleep , who they talk to , how they decorate their homes .
Or players can watch the characters go about their lives , with the Sims ' actions based on their player-programmed personalities .
Unlike shoot-em-ups or arcade games , there 's no real goal to The Sims , no way to win .
Only a chance to see simulated lives unfold .
Think of it as an interactive version of The Truman Show , brought to you by the folks who created the SimCity games .
" In the game , I can make the ideal life , as opposed to my own life , " said Bill Fox , a self-described " Mr. Mom " from Holtsville , New York . "
It 's hard to run out of money .
I can build a house that you could never afford in real life .
There 's no dead-end jobs ; you 're always getting promoted .
Plus , I can tell the kids what to do , and they 'll actually listen to me . "
Dariene Basch , 42 , of Columbia , Maryland , said the appeal of The Sims ' is making a life that is part real and part fantasy .
" I started out by recreating our real family , without the kids , " Basch said . "
I 've got three boys in real life , but I 've always wanted a daughter .
So it was such a thrill for me when my Sim persona had a baby girl . "
That got her hooked enough to start a Sim-devoted website , SIMply Dariene , which is attracting nearly 30,000 visitors per week .
The site offers players downloadable home furnishings -- from bathroom tiles to ancient Greek sculptures .


It 's About Speed , Stupid

Bottom line : For most people , the Web is just too slow to be of any real use .
Now , a group of tech companies and Internet service providers led by Nortel Networks will put their heads together to see about speeding things up .
The consortium , calling itself the Broadband Content Delivery Forum , will focus on broadband delivery to enhance the speed of Net access , said a Nortel spokesman .
As it is , most people enter the Internet through dial-up accounts , which can be painfully slow .
Another stated BCDF goal is to help ISPs provide personalized content and services to subscribers .
Nortel is being joined by some industry heavyweights , including Sun Microsystems , Hewlett-Packard , NBCi , and British Telecommunications .
Conspicuously absent are Nortel rivals Cisco Systems and Lucent Technologies , although membership in the BCDF is open to anyone in the Internet " delivery chain , " the spokesman said .
- - -
Sega banks on the Net : Sega Enterprises , which trails both Sony and Nintendo in the video-game market , is turning its full attention to the Web , where it believes the final gaming battleground lies .
Sega said Tuesday that it will form a new online entertainment company , complete with its own high-speed ISP that will provide multiplayer gaming capabilities , along with chat and information about its video games .
Gamers who subscribe to the service will get Sega 's Dreamcast player for free .
The company is the first video-game manufacturer to give a defined blueprint of how it will use the Internet to enhance playtime .
Analysts applauded the move , saying that the new company -- called SegaNet -- creates " a community of serious gamers . "
It continues a Sega rebound in the U.S. market , which began with the release of the Dreamcast player last September .
Sega now holds about 15 percent of the U.S. market .
- - -
Faster , faster : AOL is also focused on speed .
The biggest ISP launched AOL Plus on Tuesday , which delivers multimedia content to subscribers using AOL 5.0 over any high-speed connection .
This marks one of the company 's first steps toward the long-awaited introduction of high-speed access on AOL .
Downloading the technology will let AOL members use multimedia content and features , which include full-motion video and streaming audio .
- - -
Apology accepted : A French anti-racist group dropped proceedings against Microsoft on Tuesday , after Redmond said it was fixing a bug in its French-language spell checker that caused it to replace " anti-stress " with " anti-Arab . "
The Movement Against Racism said that it accepted Microsoft 's apology and its good-faith effort to correct the glitch .
Too bad for Gates that the Justice Department is n't so forgiving .
- - -
Money in the bank : ETrade , a leading U.S. online brokerage , has added federally insured online banking products to its services with Tuesday 's launch of ETrade Bank .
The new service will include features like interest-bearing checking and savings accounts , and high-yield certificates of deposit .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Smart Methods to Spot Fraud

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
As financial transactions continue to be processed electronically , fraud-busting software tools need to move beyond the cyber-version stage of a high school hall monitor randomly checking bathroom passes .
Enter the next generation of intelligent systems , sometimes called artificial intelligence : technology that can think , learn , and react as humans do , but will n't get bored by repetitive work or distracted by the cute person in the next cubicle .
Engineers are presently developing hybrid intelligent systems that incorporate all of the tools developed during the first wave of AI technology .
The London Stock Exchange uses MonITARS , developed by Searchspace .
Monitoring Insider Trading and Regulatory Surveillance
The application melds genetic algorithms , fuzzy logic , and neural network technology to detect suspicious trades within the vast amount of data that electronically passes through the exchange each day .
" The system can even detect dealing rings where several individuals or one individual with several accounts trade across all their accounts for the purpose of insider dealing or market manipulation , " Searchspace marketing director Jan Tellick said .
Searchspace calls its hybrid technology iTM , or intelligent transaction monitoring .
ITM differs from the standard monitoring tools , Tellick said , because it can learn .
It can understand business practices based on its analysis of transaction activity , using more flexible reasoning logic than the traditional on-off , yes-no type of processing .
Instead , iTM uses information collected from an internal profiling database .
The technology dynamically updates and educates itself each time it handles a new transaction .
The newest high-profile Searchspace client is the Bank of New York , which was investigated last year for allegedly laundering $ 7 billion .
The bank was not charged with a crime but agreed to improve its auditing , due diligence , and risk management .
The bank will supplement its existing monitoring systems with iTM-powered applications to comply with the mandate .
Fraud-detecting technology has been widely deployed throughout the financial industry , but until recently the available tools have focused on one specific application of artificial intelligence .
Genetic algorithms are intelligent systems inspired by biological evolution ; these systems use a " survival of the fittest " strategy to eliminate all but the best solution to a problem .
The algorithms are used in bankruptcy prediction , financial forecasting , and scheduling for big events like the Olympics .


MSN Ad Blitz Aims at AOL

SEATTLE -- Microsoft said Tuesday it would give away six months of Internet access service as part of a new $ 40 million marketing blitz aimed at stealing market share away from the industry leader , America Online .
The three-month promotion marks the software giant 's biggest push to add subscribers to its revamped MSN Internet service provider , Yusuf Mehdi , MSN vice president of marketing , said in an interview .
Under the deal , customers who subscribe to one year of MSN service would get the first six months free , Mehdi said .
The last six months would cost the standard $ 21.95 a month , which is comparable to competing services .
" We 're taking it to the next level , " Mehdi said . "
No other major ISP is doing this . "
The new campaign comes on the heels of a promotion that gave customers who signed up for three years of service $ 400 worth of merchandise at retail partners such as Radio Shack .
The promotion -- announced a day after a federal judge ruled Microsoft had violated antitrust laws by abusing its monopoly in personal computer operating systems -- also raises the stakes in the highly charged race to usher people into cyberspace .
Microsoft , toughing it out not only with AOL but also smaller services like AT&T WorldNet and Earthlink , overhauled MSN last year , jazzing up its content offerings and bringing in new management .
Although with 2.5 million subscribers , MSN lags far behind AOL 's 22 million , Medhi said he thought Microsoft was building steam , pointing to figures that showed the company netted half a million new subscribers in the last four months .
" I think the momentum is shifting now to MSN , " Mehdi said .
The marketing campaign would include advertising during top TV shows such as the Who Wants to Be a Millionaire game show , investigative news program Sixty Minutes and NBA basketball games , Mehdi said .
Microsoft would also mail out 13.5 million CDs containing MSN software , and had enlisted retailers like Radio Shack and Best Buy to do in-store promotions , Mehdi said .
Mehdi said he hoped the promotion would attract as many as 1 million new users over the next three months , although he said the " churn , " or number of customers who quit the service , would be hard to predict .
He also gave a glimpse into Microsoft 's hopes for the MSN unit , saying that the access business and the MSN.com Web site would help drive sales of the Windows operating system and of the Office suite of business software .
" MSN is kind of a critical piece to the company 's overall strategy .
MSN is kind of the tip of the bullet on the overall strategy to move into Internet services , " Mehdi said .
" To the extent that MSN helps people get on the Internet , that will help sales of Windows , " Mehdi said , adding that it was possible that future versions of Office would include Web-friendly features that could plug into MSN .
He said a federal judge 's ruling on Monday that Microsoft broke antitrust laws as it moved to stomp a rival maker of Internet software had not distracted the deployment of MSN services .
" It has n't affected our planning or roll-out at all .
We are full steam ahead , " he said . "
The Internet market is just too fast to take your eye off the ball . "




More Head-Bang for Your Buck

DataPlay has a solution for music lovers who want to take entire albums with them : technology that can store up to 10 hours of MP3s on portable devices .
At Internet World on Wednesday , the Boulder , Colorado company unveiled a matchbook-sized optical drive that can store 500 MB and will cost consumers less than $ 10 .
The storage technology could be used in portable music players , e-book readers , handheld computers , wireless phones , and digital cameras as early as next spring , when shipping begins .
The company hopes that music publishers will begin to produce albums as DataPlay discs since they can easily be mastered .
Music publishers requested that discs be mastered as read-only to protect the integrity of the music , according to DataPlay Chairman and CEO Steve Volk .
He said the discs can include additional content such as an artist 's earlier albums , music videos , or interviews .
Consumers could unlock the content , which will be protected using DataPlay 's ContentKey technology , by going online .
Volk said that although no publishers have licensed the technology yet , DataPlay has had discussions with all five of the major recording labels .
The Universal Music Group and Toshiba participated in DataPlay 's announcement Wednesday .
But music download enthusiasts may be most intrigued by using DataPlay-enabled players for recording purposes since it offers nearly four times the 128 MB of storage of current top-of-the-line portable devices .
Volk said adding DataPlay technology to an MP3 player would be " significantly less expensive than what pay for 64 MB of flash RAM today . "
electronics manufacturers
" The technology is interesting on a couple of fronts -- the form factor , the capacity of half a gigabyte " said Jeremy Schwartz , an analyst with Forrester Research . "
The cost differential is huge , " he added , noting that consumers can pay as much for a 64 MB memory upgrade as they do for the original player .
But making the devices write-once , where files can not be deleted once they are stored , instead of rewriteable like the current RAM-based players , could be viewed negatively by consumers , Schwartz said .
" This could slightly limit the way it gets used as the primary memory mechanism , " he said .
The Yankee Group 's James Penhume said he thinks music publishers may have more enthusiasm for selling digital music in DataPlay 's format than in offering downloads , which they have approached very cautiously .
" It strikes a middle ground for music distribution between and the existing model of selling CDs and cassette tapes , " he said .
Internet downloads
Penhume said that although nothing stays locked forever -- people always find a way to break encryption -- Dataplay discs are " secure relative to downloads . "
Analysts agreed that success for Dataplay hinges on its adoption by music publishers and major electronics firms such as Sony and Panasonic .
DataPlay has received endorsements from Capitol Records Nashville and Panasonic Disk Services Corporation .
" It 's all about partnerships for them , " Penhume said .
Schwartz concurred .
" It 's cool technology , no question , but it all comes down to who 's going to use it , " he said .




MS : What The Partisans Think

While most of Microsoft 's outspoken critics in the Macintosh and Linux camps are eagerly anticipating the penalty phase of the historic antitrust trial , there is n't much consensus about what penalties should be imposed .
" The first inclination is to go ' Yipee , ' " said Shawn King , host of the Mac Show , a pro-Macintosh Internet radio show . "
The bully of the schoolyard has been sent to the principal 's office .
We do n't know yet what the principal is going to do , but all the other kids are breathing a sigh of relief . "
King said he did n't advocate breaking up Microsoft because the smaller companies would probably dominate its niche markets the way the Baby Bells dominate local phone markets .
MSFT
Instead , King said he 'd like the company to come under closer government scrutiny .
" I want the principal to look over their shoulder a bit more , " he said . "
To let them know there 's an eye being kept on them . "
Bruce Perens , co-founder of the open source movement and president of Linux Capital Group , also praised the judge 's finding -- with reservations .
" I think it 's nice to see , " he said . "
But it 's 10 years too late . "
Perens said so far the Department of Justice had done little for the open source movement , which in stark contrast to companies like Microsoft believes software should be freely copied , distributed and modified .
At best , the trial had prevented Microsoft from launching an all-out attack on Linux , he said .
" I think it 's kept them off our back a little but the real contribution is they 've made us look good by being so bad , " he said .
Perens said ideally he 'd like to see the Windows source code opened , which he believes is possible if the company changes tack and negotiates with the government during the penalty phase of the case .
Perens said he 'd also like to see the company broken up to split the operating system from applications .
" I 'd like to see several smaller companies .
They might target Linux and would compete with each other a bit more , " he said .
Phil Greenspun , CEO of ArsDigita and creator of the Bill Gates personal wealth clock , said he 'd rather see the government , the largest buyer of computer technology in the world , invest resources in the development of Linux .
" I would much rather see the government put resources into improving Linux so that it serves all their needs than &#91;go&#93 ; after Microsoft , " he said . "
It would n't take that many resources to bring Linux and Star Office up to the point where people would n't need to use Microsoft products . "
Greenspun created the wealth clock as a tutorial for students at MIT and as a perverse illustration of the maxim that for every rule there 's an exception -- in this case , that wealth is a function of creativity and innovation .


Ten-Hut !
A Bootcamp for Startups

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- An atmosphere that was part religious revival meeting and part fraternity rush party marked Garage.com 's Bootcamp for Startups on Monday .
The camp motto is emblazoned on its official T-shirt : " Start up , kick butt , cash out . "
But before you can do that , you have to have a plan and some funding .
That 's where Bootcamp comes in,- offering attendees tips and tricks designed to allow them to launch their get-rich schemes .
Campers are paying $ 995 for the two-day event which concludes today .
A good portion of the tuition no doubt went to pay for ubiquitous flashing lights and throbbing music , which actually lent itself to a whole lot of schmoozing .
After Garage.com president Bill Reichert started things with a financial basics discussion , campers went directly into Basic Training , a panel discussion hosted by Garage.com 's Guy Kawasaki , Murray Alter from PriceWaterhouseCoopers , Lawrence Calcano of Goldman Sachs , John Delaney of Morrison &#038 ; Foerster , and Debra Larsen of TechSpace .
The panelists said that passion and persistence were the keys to success .
Attendees were also told not to fret about failing , because chances are that they will fail a few times before they succeed .
But above all else , campers were advised to learn the fine art of schmoozing -- how to hyperlink with other humans , work with " the right people " -- especially the people who handle the money .
" It 's all about who you know " could have been the mantra for the day , a concept that was perhaps a little discouraging for many audience members who were there because they did n't know anyone .
But Bootcamp attendees bravely took the schmoozing mandate to heart , reaching out and trying to touch the right someone during the breaks where the prime activity was scoring business cards , especially from the panelists .
All of this connecting with others was facilitated by the " Schmooze Codes " emblazoned on everyone 's name tags , which communicated attendees ' interests and needs .
For example , someone who needed startup seed funding for an Internet company was instructed to print " S-IC " on their badge , in " big block letters about one-half inch high . "
The fully funded got to write the coveted " F " on their badges -- but there was only one F in the entire Bootcamp .
The basic-ness of the Basic Training left some campers less than satisfied .
Jerry Quevado from Staten Island said he was being handed very " basic , pre-packaged information . "
His partner , Mike Patintago , agreed , saying the information about PowerPoint presentations and how long a pitch should last were " pretty elementary . "
Others were just there to see the show .
" I 'm here to check out what Guy is up to and show respect to a member of the Macintosh tribe , " Brooklyn 's Chris Kelley said .
Kawasaki
But most optimistically said they planned to make their first million real soon and seemed to be happy with the day 's gleanings .
" Two days is all I can afford to devote to sitting around listening to people talk , " Yonkers ' Greg Stein said .
" No one in this economy has time to devote two years to going to business school .
There 's a war of ideas going on out there and if you snooze , you lose . "




Vent Before You Leap

There are three classic stages of grief : denial , anger , and acceptance .
Net investors are in stage two .
Just take a look at the investor message boards .
" Nasdaq ... rhymes with asscrack , " wrote one poster on the Yahoo message board for Inktomi , which plunged $ 50 on Tuesday before climbing back to a mere $ 9.44 drop .
INKT
" I tried to jump from one of my windows and realized that I lived on the ground floor , I can n't even do that right .
... " wrote another sad sack .
Yup , it 's ugly out there .
But that 's not unexpected from the peanut gallery on one of the wildest days ever on Wall Street : Both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq Composite Index were down nearly 500 points at mid-day before late-day rallies brought them almost to the point of respectability .
But only the top tier Net stocks like Yahoo and EBay climbed back .
Many second and third tier dot coms fell on the floor and stayed there .
After a brief lull of stunned silence Tuesday morning , the message boards bristled with invective later in the day .
Second- and third-tier Net stocks , in particular , took a savage drubbing in the public opinion forum .
Suddenly , little things like " no profits " struck heretofore-giddy investors as problematic .
" Here are a few more facts for those who are foolishly holding hope that somehow IVIL has a viable business , " wrote one poster in an iVillage investor forum . "
IVIL
They lost $ 97 million during 1999 .
That is serious money , folks .
If their losses continue at any rate even close to this , it 's a total goner .
By mid '01 , they will be in bankruptcy and some women 's mag will pick up their assets for not much money . "
By late afternoon , iVillage was trading at about $ 10.50 , down 20-plus percent on the day .
When iVillage had huge losses last year , too , and said it would have losses for the foreseeable future , the stock was trading at $ 130 .
Go figure .
Many other dot com high fliers of yesteryear , including a slew of e-tail stocks , Net healthcare stocks , and finance news stocks , took blush-inducing beatings on the boards .
Sparing the gory details , here is a G-rated post from the Yahoo boards :
" Companies that are not profitable should n't be worth $ 160 or $ 130 or $ 10 .
Welcome to reality . "
For TheStreet.com , which is both a public Net company and a news organization that reports on public companies , posters provided special vehemence .
TSCM
" Wow !
TSCM &#91;TheStreet.com&#93 ; is going into the cellar faster than any of the stocks they have trashed .
Good riddance !
IPO at $ 70 , now under $ 7 , " someone wrote on the ragingbull.com message boards .
Back on the Yahoo boards , a lad reared on the green , green grass of dot-com land made an interesting discovery about stocks .
They sometimes go down .
" I am officially declaring bankruptcy .
Today is a f**king massacre - I can not believe this sh*t - I should have known - I am down $250K on today - sh*t !
!
!
!
Now - I know what those people was feeling back in the 1929 stock dump - I feel like jumping out the window myself , " he wrote , before tempering it with this tidbit , " I 'm only 22 yr - so I know I can make it back some why some how - dumb f**king luck . "
Anger , anger everywhere .
But wait , what 's this , the first signs of acceptance in a post on ragingbull.com ?
" And castles made of sand ... "




Case : ' Netscape Magic is Back '

LOS ANGELES -- America Online on Wednesday introduced the long-anticipated Netscape 6.0 preview release 1 , the first major update in two years to the once-dominant browser .
The announcement at Internet World Spring 2000 came not from a Netscape official , but from AOL chairman Steve Case , whose company acquired Netscape a year ago .
Netscape 6.0 is available for download for Windows , Macintosh , Linux , and a host of Unix flavors .
Along with the new browser , AOL announced a slew of licensing deals for Gecko , the rendering engine in Netscape 6.0 , as well as a trio of new dedicated AOL thin clients from PC vendor Gateway .
" We hope you 'll agree the Netscape magic is back , " said Case .
He and the other Netscape executives made a point of giving credit to participants in Mozilla.org , the open-source project that brought into the browser development effort everyone from high school students to professional developers .
" They made a huge difference in our ability to tap into the brightest people in our industry to help with this program , " said Jim Martin , senior vice president and general manager of Netscape .
Netscape 6.0 should be viewed not as a browser with an underlying graphics engine , but an engine with a browser on it , said the executives .
Gecko is the true star of this development effort , the browser is simply one application built on that engine .
The company secured a number of prominent licensees , including IBM , Intel , Liberate , NetObjects , Nokia , and Sun Microsystems , who plan to use the Gecko engine .
The company would not say when or if it would use Gecko in America Online 's client software , which currently uses Microsoft 's Internet Explorer engine , but they did joke that Microsoft was welcome to license Gecko for its browser .
AOL representatives likewise were silent on Microsoft 's legal woes , despite repeated questions from the crowd .
Among the new features in Netscape 6.0 is MySidebar , a browser-within-a-browser that keeps open one window , such as a newswire or a stock ticker , while you surf in the main window .
MySidebar is customizable to add user-defined content .
CNN , EBay , and The New York Times are among the early supporters of the sidebar feature .
The browser is also integrated with AOL 's Instant Messenger .
AIM
You can automatically log in when you start Netscape 6.0 , and if an AIM user emails you , you can respond via the email client or send an instant message if they are online .
For the growing international market , Netscape 6.0 has a built-in translation engine , so if a user visits a Web site in a foreign language , the browser can translate from that language to the user 's language of choice .
Netscape did not set a formal release date for the final version of Netscape 6.0 .




All AOL , All the Time

LOS ANGELES -- America Online continued to roll out its " AOL Anywhere " strategy on Wednesday by announcing three thin-client devices for dedicated AOL surfing , built by PC-maker Gateway .
The joint development represents the first steps in the two companies ' financial partnership , dating back to last fall when AOL made an $ 800 million investment in Gateway .
The three devices , announced at Internet World Spring 2000 , will all run the Linux operating system under the hood and are instant-on , dedicated AOL-only machines designed to boot immediately and connect only to the ISP giant .
The user never sees Linux , nor can users run anything other than the custom AOL client , which uses the Gecko technology introduced Wednesday in the Netscape 6 browser .
The three units are not intended to be PC replacements .
" The No. 1 reason people buy PCs is to access the Internet , " said Peter Ashkin , chief technology officer for Gateway in Irvine , California . "
These will complement the PC and provide a small , simple device to access the Internet from anywhere in the home . "
Two of the devices use LCD flat panels , while one uses the traditional CRT monitor .
The first device , the AOL Gateway countertop appliance , looks like little more than a flat-panel monitor .
The base can be bent 180 degrees , so it can be either a stand or a unit hung under a counter or cabinet .
It uses a wireless keyboard with a built-in mouse .
Users can also interact with the system via a stylus or using the touch-sensitive screen .
The system is expected to ship by the end of the year .
The second unit , the AOL Gateway wireless Web pad , is about the size of a laptop and about as thick .
It has a built-in digital camera and speakers , and uses the same wireless technology as a wireless phone .
The device also will have a wireless keyboard and a touch-sensitive screen , and must be within range of a base that connects over standard phone lines to AOL .
The Web pad should be available in early 2001 .
The AOL Gateway desktop appliance is a CRT-based unit that will be cheaper than the other two since it uses the less expensive CRT monitor .
It also uses a wireless keyboard and mouse but will not be touch-enabled .
Gateway expects it to ship by year 's end .
No prices have been set , but Ashkin expects all the devices to be within the $ 500 range .




Napster Copies Move Forward

A controversial file-sharing utility project started by America Online employees has been resurrected by open-source advocates .
When the " Gnutella " software was first introduced in March , AOL quickly shut down the site , calling it an " unauthorized freelance project . "
Justin Frankel and Tom Pepper , founders of Nullsoft , which AOL acquired , and the popular Winamp MP3 player , developed the file-sharing software tool which could be even more potent than Napster in enabling users to share MP3 files over the Net .
Over the last several weeks Gnutella networks have been up and running around the Net , and unofficial Gnutella sites have sprung up providing copies of the utility , and hosting users ' questions and forums .
On Monday an unofficial Gnutella site released version .56 of the software and information about future releases .
In the FAQ section , the site explains that there is no involvement from the Nullsoft team .
" In the interest of protecting those involved , it can only be said that these versions are being produced by someone with access to the source code , " said a statement on the site . "
I would certainly expect more versions , since we 've already seen several materialize . "
Email requests for comment about the unofficial Gnutella site were not returned .
Gnutella author Pepper was unavailable for comment .
At 9:00 a.m. PDT Monday , there were more than 2000 hosts , and 250,000 files available for trading on the network of Gnutella users .
One of the innovative Gnutella features is a monitoring tool that displays a list of searches currently underway .
Searches being executed on Monday morning included Warez , Amber Lynn , Leon Redbone , Britney Spears , Powertweak , Star Wars , 3d Studio Max , MPEG Encoder , marijuana , and Ring of Fire .
According to the site , the source code will be available when version 1.0 is released .


A Capital Plan for College Ideas

In 1966 a young physiologist at the University of Florida started giving an experimental electrolyte drink to the freshman football team .
That year , the Gators began a winning streak that earned them a reputation as a " second-half team " by kicking ass in the final plays .
The team 's stamina was attributed to the fruity fluid-replacement drink , developed by medical researcher Dr. Robert Cade .
" We did n't have Gatorade , " the coach of an opposing team told Sports Illustrated after losing to the Gators . "
That made the difference . "
With these words , one of the most successful products to come out of university research was born .
Currently , Gatorade earns the manufacturer , Quaker Oats , $ 1.3 billion in annual sales , and for years has been one of the University of Florida 's top money-making spin-offs .
The Gatorade story , is not , however , typical .
With a few notable exceptions , most university research is never commercialized .
Instead , it is doomed to a life of obscurity on a laboratory shelf .
But entrepreneur Craig Zolan wants to change that with a new Internet technology marketplace that matches technology sellers with technology buyers .
Zolan 's UVentures is an eBay for patent holders .
Researchers at colleges around the globe list their inventions in the hopes of catching the eye of a mega-corporation hunting for the next breakthrough idea .
Zolan , who comes from a family of entrepreneurs -- all five siblings and his parents started their own businesses -- knew a tech marketplace was a good idea when he floated that idea one afternoon during a visit to a university .
He was immediately pitched 20 or more undeveloped technologies .
" There are a lot of lost opportunities , " he said . "
I did some investigating and realized it was epidemic among institutions .
There is a lot of technology that can be commercially viable but it is just sitting there . "
According to Zolan , with the exception of Stanford , the University of California , and MIT , most universities and colleges are not very good at capitalizing on the ideas hatched in their labs .
While many of these institutions have offices for " technology transfer , " as it 's known , they tend to be under-funded , under-staffed , and rely on a hopelessly outdated business practice : personal contacts .


Debating Humanity 's Demise

Self-replicating systems , slide show presentations on micro-processing speed , and debate over Moores Law 's application to computer operating systems are not usually the subjects that draw overflow crowds on a sunny afternoon .
Silicon Valley , however , is not a usual place .
And these are not usual times .
So no one was too surprised Saturday when a forum on the threats of technological innovation -- entitled Will Spiritual Robots Replace Humanity by 2100 ?
-- got a mob reception at Stanford University .
On an otherwise pristine afternoon , what some estimated as well over a thousand people crushed inside a far-too-small auditorium to hear Sun Microsystems chief scientist Bill Joy , robotics researcher Hans Moravec , author and inventor Ray Kurzweil , and a panel of science luminaries debate whether humanity 's technological prowess is planting the seed of our own demise .
Fuzzy overhead projectors and semi-audible speeches from men in wrinkled button-down shirts aside , it was heady stuff .
" It 's the tech equivalent of a rock show , " said John Meisell , software development head at iFilm , who was relatively unfazed at not finding a seat .
He was accompanied by a friend who flew in from Los Angeles for the symposium and was equally unsurprised by the turnout , although he declined to give his name , saying it would be " way too embarrassing . "
The source of the hoopla ?
An e-mail announcement that made the rounds of technophile news groups , promising a debate on how the confluence of revolutionary research in artificial intelligence , nanotechnology , virtual reality , genetic programming , quantum computing , and other emerging areas promise to profoundly alter the very nature of humanity .
The gathering set out to investigate the ethical downside of all this progress .
The contention : that the sweeping pace of technological advancement , in academia , the military , and the corporate world , opens up a new wave of moral questions .
Not least of those is whether certain lines of scientific inquiry should be relinquished as too dangerous to pursue .
At least that was the Joy 's point .
The Sun co-founder , who recently published his views on why emerging lines of scientific inquiry -- in particular , nanotechnology manipulation of matter at the atomic level -- carry the potential for massive destruction .
Computer scientist and nanotechnology expert Ralph Merkle compared the debate to controversy that emerged more than half a century ago when the scientific community first grappled with the advent of nuclear technology .
Merkle said , over Joy 's objections , that it was too early to tell whether nanotechnology would emerge as technology best geared for offense , as in the case of nukes , or as a defensive application .


A Chip Off the Old Chip

S3 Inc. , a graphics chip company since its founding 11 years ago , will sell that business to a new joint venture that it is forming with Via Technologies , a Taiwanese firm .
S3 will take the $ 323 million payoff , strengthen its technology investments , and try and reinvent itself as an Internet appliance company .
S3 could make more money if certain financial goals are reached by the new company .
With its graphics-chips days behind it , S3 says it will focus on " products and partnerships that build the digital home . "
It already has the Rio multimedia player in the fold , having acquired Diamond Multimedia last year .
The Via deal is expected to close prior to S3 's third quarter , company officials said .
- - -
Bullish on broadband : Microsoft said Tuesday that it had acquired MediaOne 's stake in Titus Communications , Japan 's second largest broadband provider .
No terms were disclosed .
The deal reflects Microsoft 's growing effort to carve out a bigger slice of the broadband pie , which the company considers pivotal to a future of unlimited Internet access from any kind of device .
For its part , MediaOne is in the process of liquidating most of its international portfolio as it prepares to merge with AT&T .
Titus , founded in 1995 , offers cable TV , telephony , and Internet services in Japan .
- - -
A rising son : Microsoft is n't the only company making waves in Japan 's broadband market .
Sony said Tuesday that it will launch its own broadband telecommunications service for corporate customers in July , marking its entry into the already crowded market .
The service will give companies ultra-fast connections for boosting their e-commerce trade .
The service , which provides constant access to a broadband telecommunications infrastructure operating at a rate of 1.5 Mbps , will be offered at a monthly rate of 70,000 yen .
US$ 658
It will be offered only in Tokyo to start , but Sony said it will " eventually " expand to other major Japanese cities .
- - -
Orbit TV : Plans are afoot to establish the first private broadcasting and production facility in space .
SpaceHab Inc. , a commercial space company , said that it is looking to the day -- possibly as early as 2002 -- when programming and production will originate from its broadcast facility aboard the International Space Station .
To that end , it has formed a subsidiary , Space Media Inc. , to oversee the construction and running of the facility , to be called Enterprise .
Hmm .
Wonder where they dreamed that one up .
- - -
Carnivores online : Six of the world 's leading meat and poultry producers will create a collaborative online marketplace for their products .
The companies -- IBP Inc. , Cargill , Smithfield Foods , Tyson Foods , Gold Kist , and Farmland Industries -- will invest $ 20 million in the venture , which will operate as an independent company .
When the site is running later this summer , it will be open to all buyers and sellers in the industry , the companies said .
- - -
Prospectors : AngloGold Ltd. , the world 's largest gold company , said it will open an Internet gold shop selling jewelry and investment services , in a bid to boost demand for the sagging metal .
J.P. Morgan and PAMP , a gold refiner , are also investing in www.goldavenue.com , with the three firms pumping in $ 20 million to fund its first year of operation .
The site is expected to be open for business during the second half of the year .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Gene Research , Meet Napster

A researcher working on the Human Genome Project is using Napster technology , and he 's not looking for T3 connections to download Moby .
Dr. Lincoln Stein , an associate professor of bioinformatics at the Cold Spring Harbor Lab in New York , is investigating ways to use Napster-type technology to allow scientists to share their discoveries of the genome .
" I was very interested when I saw Napster , " Stein said . "
It has a similar architecture , but it allows for ' peer-to-peer ' data exchange and it dawned on me that it would be marvelous for our annotation system . "
to what we use now
Peer-to-peer data exchange allows users to link directly to each other 's computers to share files using a centralized server system .
The technology has become extremely popular among college students and other music lovers as an easy way to find and download MP3 files on the Internet .
But it 's extremely controversial .
The Recording Industry Association of America has filed a lawsuit against Napster saying its music transfer violates copyright laws .
Stein , who was looking for better ways to manage the information coming out of the HGP , heard about Napster while listening to National Public Radio one evening .
Despite his enthusiasm for the technology 's potential , he 's a bit apprehensive about running his idea by his genomics colleagues .
" I have n't dared to yet .
It 's so associated with piracy at the moment I want to wait for the noise to die down , " he said .
Napster likes the idea , and said it 's also exploring ways to use the filesharing technology in a wider range of applications , according to Liz Brooks , a spokeswoman for Napster .
" We love the idea of this technology being used to share essential scientific discoveries , " Brooks said .
Gnutella , a spinoff of Napster , would be an even better match for exchanging genomics research , Stein said .
The Gnutella project , however , was shut down almost as soon as it was launched last week .
That software was designed to create self-perpetuating networks that grow independent of the company 's server .
Users could connect to other " servant " computers , creating a chain of participating users -- an architecture that would allow for one-to-one or many-to-many connections .
" Gnutella works out over multiple servers which replicate the information -- that 's a very exciting technology because what we have to deal with in the HGP is data that keeps growing , " Stein said . "
We now have about 5 terabytes of information and we 're only done with two-thirds of the sequencing .
It will grow an order of magnitude more . "
Sequencing the genome is only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to genomics research .
On its own , the human genome map is a jumble of Cs , As , Gs , and Ts -- letters that represent the sequence of human genes but do n't explain how they function .
The map is the starting point for mining genetic information , but genomics researchers must work from there to discover drugs and diagnostics for disease .
The more information researchers can share , the faster these discoveries will come .
" The larger genome centers have the wherewithal to put up servers to publish their data electronically , " Stein said . "
Smaller , independent biology labs are clients of that and they download the information . "
The smaller labs , however , do n't have a mechanism to publish their own findings electronically .
That 's where the Napster/Gnutella technology would come in handy .
But Stein hopes the technology will be used by more than just human genome researchers .
" My hope is that it would be used by all biologists .
I would hope that even bright high school students would be able to contribute , " he said .
Companies such as Incyte and Celera charge from thousands to millions of dollars for their databases containing genomics information .
Whether a Napster-like technology could infringe on revenue from the sale of such database subscriptions remains to be seen .
" It comes down to how the companies with genomic information make money .
For companies like Incyte , or partly &#91;for&#93 ; Celera I think the answer is yes , " said Cyrus Harmon , president of Neomorphic , a genomics company in Berkeley , California .
Companies looking to patent genes and gene function to generate profits would probably not be affected , he added .
" I think this is somewhat inevitable -- the information is going to be out there , " Harmon said .
Celera and Incyte declined to comment .
Stein said he 'll have to write his own code based on the Napster/Gnutella basic protocols to enable searches specific to genomics data .
He said he 's negotiating with some companies about developing the technology but would n't mention any names .




Yahoo Keeps on Growing

PALO ALTO , California -- Yahoo , the first major Internet company to report earnings for the first quarter , weighed in Wednesday with solid results .
The company said its revenue more than doubled compared to same period last year , while profits more than tripled .
The earnings announcement comes in the midst of an extraordinarily turbulent week for Internet and technology stocks .
The Nasdaq index has seen both record plunges and rapid-fire recoveries , with Net and tech stocks particularly sensitive to volatility .
Because Yahoo is viewed as a bellwether for the rest of the Internet sector , its earnings will likely play a role in Thursday 's trading .
But since the results were more or less in line with what Wall Street expected , it 's unlikely to trigger any panic buttons .
The company said its first-quarter earnings before unusual items totaled $ 63.3 million , or 10 cents per diluted share , compared with $ 17.7 million , or 3 cents , in the year-ago quarter .
The earnings were a penny above the official consensus forecast of analysts .
Shares of Yahoo , however , were down moderately in after-hours trade shortly after the results were announced .
The stock , which had fallen 1-13/16 to close at 165-9/16 , was quoted around 161-1/2 in after-market activity .
It was not immediately clear whether investors were disappointed that Yahoo had not beaten official forecasts by a wider margin , as it has done in the past , or if the drop reflected general nervousness in the market .
Yahoo said revenues in the first quarter were $ 228.4 million , up from $ 103.9 million a year earlier , while page views of its websites averaged 625 million per day in March , up about 34 percent from 465 million in December .
The strong growth in page views was a positive surprise to some analysts who had forecast the company would only achieve single-digit growth .
Yahoo said that much of the growth came from overseas .
In Japan alone , it now has 14 million users , and its total global audience now numbers 145 million .
" Our results in the first quarter continue to demonstrate that we have created a global service that resonates with users and a business with inherent self-reinforcing scale from which strong financial results can be derived , " Yahoo CEO Tim Koogle said in a statement .
The company said much of its plans for future growth involve distributing its content to wireless devices , like cellphones , that will enable consumers to get connected to the Internet anywhere and at any time .
Yahoo said its auctions service surpassed 2.5 million daily listings in the quarter , up from 1.5 million in December .
Yahoo also named Susan Decker , global head of research at brokerage Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette , as its new chief financial officer , replacing Gary Valenzuela , who will retire in July .
Reuters contributed to this report




Intel Chips in on Wireless Net

LOS ANGELES -- Sean Maloney has seen the future : It 's wireless , and it 's coming a lot faster than you may think .
Intel 's head of sales and marketing predicts that within a couple of years teen-agers who are n't sending dozens of email messages a month via their cell phones will n't have many friends .
Average computer consumers will scoot around their homes with Etch A Sketch-sized , unwired computer pads that allow them to play MP3 music , surf the Web or send email from any room in the house .
" Geeks are doing it now , " he said Thursday after his keynote address at Spring Internet World 2000 . "
The rest of us will be doing it over the next two years .
We 're seeing a huge shift to the mobile space . "
Maloney , of course , wants Intel to be at the center of the wireless sea-change .
The chip giant on Wednesday announced its first wireless home-networking system , allowing consumers to connect together computers and laptops in their homes for $ 119 to $ 129 per computer .
The latest products in its Anypoint home-networking system allow home users to surf the Net at speeds up to about 500 kb per second at up to 150 feet from a central transmitter .
A key element of such systems will be wireless notepads such as a recently released one from Fujitsu that allowed one of Maloney 's assistants to check Los Angeles traffic , print out information and play his favorite MP3 from a simulated " house " onstage .
Intel is betting that its own chip architecture will be embedded in many of these Net appliances , from a small form-factor CD jukebox PC capable of storing hundreds of CDs to the wireless tablets .
" The hassle has been the wires , " Maloney said . "
in networking homes
Now , you 'll be able to buy tiny that make the whole process a lot easier . "
products


A Hip Club for Square Teens

Call it the 4-H Club : The Next Generation .
Teenagers in Austin , Texas , are banding together to create a new social and networking club for young techies and budding entrepreneurs , and they are hoping the trend will catch on .
" It 's going to be like a technology social club , " said 16-year-old Melissa Sconyers . "
We want to promote the idea that geeky is cool . "
" We 'd like to have an impact on the beginning high school students and encourage them the technology field , " agreed 18-year-old Justin McGarry , who has paired up with Sconyers to plan the club .
to enter
The two met several weeks ago when McGarry was profiled in a local paper for having passed the exam to become a Microsoft certified professional , which provides him credentials to work as a computer consultant .
The job offers started pouring in from Dell , Compaq , and Motorola , as well as an offer from Sconyers to help start the club .
And McGarry is happy to collaborate .
" There 's not really an interest in field at my high school , " McGarry said , pointing out that most of his peers in the small town outside of Austin pursue careers in farming or the automotive industry .
the technology
Sconyers , who is home-schooled and finds public school " stifling , " thought McGarry would be ideal to help plan the club given his sharp technology skills .
Sconyers currently runs her own Web design business in addition to completing school , and she 's one of the youngest members of Women in Technology International .
The as yet un-named group plans to hold meetings and social events rooted in a technology theme .
Sconyers hopes to bring speakers like Michael Dell and Richard Garriott , the founder of gaming company Origin , to address the teens .
She has already spoken with several technology companies that could potentially host the monthly club gathering .
" They are interested in being connected with the idea of teens in technology -- especially getting girls involved in technology , " Sconyers said , declining to name which companies have expressed an interest .


Opto-Chip for Infinite Bandwidth

WASHINGTON -- A device that operates at very low voltage but can quickly convert signals into optical transmissions promises to make surfing the Web a snap , researchers said on Thursday .
The device , a modulator called an " opto-chip , " could also act as a steering device for radar and satellite communications , the researchers report in the journal Science .
It can convert electric signals into optical transmissions at a rate of 100 gigabytes of information per second , said Larry Dalton , a chemist at the University of Washington and University of Southern California who helped lead the study .
" These electro-optic modulators will permit real-time communication .
You will n't have to wait for your computer to download even the largest files , " Dalton said in a statement .
" We 'll be able to take telephone signals , computer data , TV signals -- any type of signal you can think of -- put it on fiber optic , route it around the world with almost no optical signal loss , and accomplish this with infinite bandwidth , " he added .
" It has the potential of revolutionizing the way we all function . "
Modulators act like translators , encoding electrical signals onto optical beams that can carry the information .
The best ones have large bandwidth -- a reference to the capacity to carry information -- but need little electricity to work .
Dalton and his colleagues tried using organic molecules called chromophores , embedded in a polymer matrix .
Chromophores are known for their electro-optic capabilities and scientists have been tinkering with them for years , but they tend to interfere with one another .
The researchers changed the shape of the chromophores , and found this alteration minimized the clash in their electrical fields .
Dalton said one feature of the new modulator is its ease of integration .
The devices can be densely packed into packages without optical energy leaking between them or overheating .
Researchers at Tacan Corp. in Carlsbad , California , tested the opto-chips and got them to translate electronic cable television signals into optical signals using less than one volt of electricity .
Researchers at Lockheed Martin Corp. 's research laboratory in Palo Alto , California said they had since replicated those results in tests involving other applications .
LMT




Navigating the Music Maze

It had been a while since I 'd done any serious shopping for a CD player , Walkman , or other audio product , and as expected , the options on the shelves had blossomed .
I needed to replace my home cassette deck , which I used to record CDs and vinyl into mix tapes and music to go .
I wanted a new device to download music from the Internet .
and maybe even some files from a Napster user or two
I was faced with a variety of choices -- which device , which format , and which storage media to use ?
There were CD players , MP3 players , Sony 's Memory Stick Walkman , MiniDisc players , and tape players , each with portable and recordable versions .
The players rely on a variety of flash , optical , or tape storage media , and each supports at least one , but never all , of the spate of digital audio formats including MP3 , Windows Media Audio , and their many competitors .
I did n't even want to think about that strange hybrid from the professional audio world , digital audio tape .
While I was eventually able to compromise on a choice , two things became clear : It 's almost impossible to choose the format of tomorrow while satisfying your current playback and recording needs , and a technology shakeout to minimize the selection process is n't coming anytime soon , if ever .
Welcome to the confusion of the digital audio gap -- where nothing is standard and everything is apt to change .
" That 's what convergence is , " said Brian Fenton , executive editor of Sound and Vision magazine . "
It 's a buzzword , but all this stuff is coming together -- and getting further apart at the same time . "
But the industry likes to put a positive spin on this by calling it " consumer choice . "
The dizzying array of digital audio choices today makes the brief market battle between the VHS and Betamax video formats of 20 years ago seem like a walk in the park .
The clean-cut technological transition may be a thing of the past .
like vinyl to CD
" I do n't think any one format is going to dominate anything any longer , " said Todd Schrader , director of marketing at Sony General Audio . "
I think those days are behind us . "
That 's not stopping proponents of every audio storage media from heralding their own technology as the heir to the CD .
Electronics manufacturers have joined together and promise that DVD-Audio will replace the CD .
Sony 's answer is its own Super Audio CD , which it developed with Philips .
Meanwhile , the developers of new secure format for flash memory cards , the " SD Card , " promise to be the next big thing -- not Sony 's Memory Stick or other flash memory currently on the market .
The Consumer Electronics Association cited a 13 percent jump in sales of portable CD players in 1999 , along with a jump in sales for built-in car CD players .
Gary Shapiro , president of the CEA , said those figures are reason to be optimistic about future sales prospects of new digital formats .
But linking CD player sales to future demand for emerging formats instead of the continued growth of CDs seems a bit of a stretch .
Sound and Vision 's Fenton said he did n't think the CD was going away anytime soon .
And while DVD-Audio improves on the CD , industry politics may have caused the format to miss the boat .
Thanks to copyright concerns , the recording industry has n't shown the same enthusiasm as the video industry has for DVD .
And now that consumers are buying up DVD video players -- sans DVD-Audio compatibility -- their appetite for a second machine to play audio will be low .


Celera Wins Genome Race

Celera Genomics has finished sequencing the entire human genome .
The private company made the surprise announcement Thursday morning at a House hearing that had been scheduled to discuss the future of the Human Genome Project .
" We 've finished the sequencing phase , " Celera president Craig Venter said at the hearing .
With those words , Celera officially beat the public Human Genome Project in a long , closely watched race that ended several months ahead of Celera 's own schedule as well as the public project 's .
" It 's awesome .
It 's an incredible scientific feat .
They really pushed the envelope of the technology and they 've done what nobody thought could be done ... well ahead of schedule -- it 's remarkable , " said Cyrus Harmon , president and CEO of Neomorphic , a genomics company in Berkeley .
The next step , Venter said , is to assemble the mapping annotation over the next several weeks : Celera scientists will piece the fragments of the sequence together according to where they 're located in the body .
The significance of this development is staggering : sequencing the human genome was a monumental task , certainly the most difficult and time-consuming process of locating and mapping all 3 billion units of a human being 's DNA .
A genome contains all of the genetic material in the chromosomes of a particular organism .
A gene carries the instructions for all the body 's processes .
Once the fragments are pieced together , researchers plan to use the information for genetic diagnosis and to develop gene therapies .
" We really can n't overestimate how important this is -- it really is a big day for science , " Harmon said .
Venter said Celera will have a complete annotated map by the end of the year .
Although Venter denied that Celera was actually racing the public project , the two groups have been competitive in the past .
Venter said Celera will make the genome available to researchers who want to use it , despite repeated accusations that the company wants to restrict access to the information .
" We will publish the sequence of a human being and make it available on the Internet with no restrictions for researchers to use information , " Venter said .
However , Venter also defended the company 's plan to patent up to 500 genes .
Celera said it filed for 6,500 patents on gene sequences last year , but now says it has only submitted preliminary paperwork on the genetic information and will only ask for patents on genes that may be significant for drug development .
The company began sequencing the human genome in September 1999 , and has since stirred up significant attention from the government as well as the media .
To map the genome , Celera used what it says is the largest civilian supercomputer and a " shotgun " technique to piece together the sequences that make up the double helix of DNA .
Celera scientist Mark Adams developed the algorithm for the shotgun technique , and the company used it to map the genome of the Drosophila , or fruit fly , which it recently published in Science magazine .
The Human Genome Project has said it will soon have a first draft of 90 percent of the human genome with four to five times coverage , and expects to have a final draft in 2002 or 2003 .
redundant mapping for accuracy
The public project and Celera have talked about collaborating in the past , but the two groups have failed at repeated attempts to join hands .
During Thursday 's hearing , Venter said his company and the Human Genome Project had in fact made an agreement , but reserach centers in Britain had stepped in to prevent the deal from going forward .
" We had reached an agreement and had memorandum of understanding , but it fell through at the last minute &#91;due to&#93 ; pressure from the Wellcome Trust and Sanger Center , " Venter said . "
Unless the entire government was going to work with Celera -- they did n't want parts of the government project doing separate deals . "
Federal officials said the government would investigate the matter .
The company 's stock price ( CRA surged 24-5/8 at 139-5/8 in late-day trading , and was the volume leader on the New York Stock Exchange after the announcement .




RealNetworks : Full Stream Ahead

NEW YORK -- Nobody is looking forward to the future of wireless and broadband services more than Rob Glaser .
When the wireless and broadband infrastructure is in place , the CEO of Real Networks said his company 's audio and video players will be deployed on a whole new generation of cable networks , set-tops , digital audio players , and wireless devices .
" Over time , the impact of everything that we 're &#91;webcasters&#93 ; doing will have the same impact on traditional broadcast and cable that cable had on traditional broadcast , " Glaser said Thursday in his keynote address at the Kagan Streaming Media Summit .
He predicted that 15 years from now , a third of the viewing time will be spent on programming that is purely delivered over broadband infrastructures .
Currently , the top 3 or 4 networks have 80 to 90 percent of the prime time viewing audience .
Glaser expects the number of broadband users to grow to 27 million by 2003 , up from 11 million in 2001 .
To date , there are about 6 million broadband users .
And when this massive broadband infrastructure is in place , Glaser said , the programming and content will begin to thrive .
" We 'll be channels 151 through 150,000 , and more importantly , enable a huge hybrid set of applications , " he said .
Glaser also talked about some of the new types of programming that will be possible via the Internet , though RealNetworks will not get involved in that side of the business .
" We 're not on a path to be an original creator of content in terms of a news bureau , signing bands , making movies , " Glaser said . "
We 're more likely to stay pure in terms of our business , but have deeper partnerships that come out of this heightened level of interest that the Time/AOL merger has catalyzed . "
On the AOL/Time Warner merger , Glaser added , " I 've certainly had more meetings in the last three months with very senior executives of the top 10 or 15 media companies in the world than I have in the preceding three years . "
One industry that will be particularly impacted by the transition to broadband is cable TV .
Glaser said the cable operators will try to retain their position as the sole biller for on-demand and subscription services , but set-top boxes will give Web companies an opportunity to work their way into the cable and TV world .
" We see those walls &#91;cable operators ' control of billing&#93 ; breaking down , " he said , as set top boxes work their way into homes . "
These boxes will n't have the same ease of upgradability that PCs have , but hopefully the flip side of that is that people will n't have to reboot their televisions as often as they have to reboot Windows . "




Sun Never Sets on Linux

MONTREAL -- Americans may prefer Microsoft , but international computer users are finding solidarity in Linux .
" It 's a global thing , " said Mark Bolzern , founder and president of Linuxmall.com . "
The U.S. market has been Microsoft-duped . "
The popularity of the software with computer users outside the United States was obvious at this week 's Linux Expo North America in Montreal , where 90 percent of exhibitors were from other countries , said Stphane Labrouche , vice president of Sky Events Group , the show 's Paris-based promoter .
" Look who 's here ! "
Labrouche said . "
That , I think , shows how important market is to the Linux world . "
the Canadian
It 's also a reflection that , however popular Linux is in the United States , it is quickly becoming an even greater phenomenon in the rest of the world , Bolzern said .
" Despite import problems , duties and the exchange rate , we sell more per capita in Canada than in the U.S , " he said .
On a per-capita basis , Canadians are among the world 's biggest Linux users , said Evan Liebovitch , director of the Brampton , Ontario-based Linux Professional Institute . "
In the Linux Counter Project 's survey , Canada ranks 15th , " he said . "
That does n't sound like much , but out of countries with a population of more than 10 million , only the Netherlands ranks higher .
The U.S. is way down there . "
Despite many of the top Linux companies residing south of the Canadian border , the U.S. only ranks 19th in registered Linux users per capita , according to Liebovitch .
Most of the big Linux players -- U.S.-based as well as international -- attended Linux Expo , including Red Hat Chairman Bob Young , Corel CEO Michael Cowpland , SuSE CTO Dirk Hohndel , and Jacques le Marois , president of Paris-based Mandrakesoft .
It 's a long way from the insanity of Comdex , but Linux Expo well exceeded its organizers expectations , drawing some 7,000 visitors in the first two days .


The Laziest Way to Surf

HIGH POINT , N.C. -- Leave it to La-Z-Boy and Microsoft to find a way to surf with your feet up .
The companies unveiled the " e-cliner , " a plush recliner with Microsoft 's WebTV hard-wired into the armrest during opening day of the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point , N.C. , on Thursday .
" I usually fall asleep watching TV in one of these recliners , so now I guess I can surf the Web in my sleep , too , " said one retail buyer looking over the recliner at La-Z-Boy Inc. 's showroom here .
The e-cliner will retail from $ 999 upholstered to $ 1,299 for the leather version , complete with the WebTV keyboard console , set-top box , and two month 's free WebTV service .
Although the e-cliner , dubbed the " Explorer , " generated some buzz for the company 's recliner business , the roll-out comes as La-Z-Boy works to integrate recent acquisitions that have diversified its product offerings and boosted revenues for the furniture maker .
Gerald Kiser , La-Z-Boy president and chief operating officer , said the company expects to meet analysts ' estimates of 48 cents a share earnings in the fiscal fourth quarter ending April 30 .
The company reported $ 1.10 a share earnings through the third quarter , and fourth quarter earnings of 48 cents a share would put them comfortably in the $ 1.58 - $ 1.60 a share range projected by First Call analysts .
" We feel comfortable with that 48-49 cents that they 're projecting " for the fourth quarter , he said .
La-Z-Boy has been growing revenues through a series of acquisitions that have transformed the Monroe , Michigan-based company widely known for its line of recliners , into the nation 's largest manufacturer of residential furniture .
The company added about $ 600 million in annual revenues through its acquisition of LADD Furniture Inc. , which closed in late January .
That deal came on the heels of acquisitions of Bauhaus USA Inc. , and Alexvale Furniture , which added a combined $ 160 million in annual revenues .
Kiser said the company will generate $ 80 million in free cash flow in fiscal 2001 , and will use some of that to repay debt and buy back shares , while continuing with plans to open 30-35 new stores a year .
" It gives us a lot of flexibility , " he said .




Genome Bridesmaids : ' So What ?
'

Genetics tycoon Craig Venter sure did raise some hairs , eyebrows , and biotech stock shares Thursday .
But his company 's announcement of completing the sequencing of the human genome has some industry researchers crying foul , especially the ones he used to work with .
William Haseltine , CEO of Human Genome Sciences , a Rockville , Maryland-based biopharmaceutical company that competes with Celera , worked closely with Venter for several years in the early 1990s .
He says Celera 's news is n't really news at all .
Of course , do n't tell that to investors , who helped drive the Nasdaq 's biotechnology index up 5.53 percent to 1,131 by the end of Thursday 's trading .
" It 's like mapping the surface of Mars , " he said . "
It 's of fundamental scientific and philosophical interest .
There 's little practical importance . "
Haseltine believes the future of genetic research resides in the genes themselves , the minuscule parts of each chromosome -- the long , convoluted chains of DNA that make up human cells .
Other scientists , even ones who share Venter 's vision of mapping the compendium of all human genes , say Celera still has n't done that .
Richard Gibbs , director of the Human Genome Sequencing Center at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston , said Venter has n't done much of anything but make people notice his company .
" Craig knows how to stir the pot , " he said . "
This is just a small milestone in doing the easy part .
The hard part is being done in the public arena . "
Baylor is one of the five major sequencing centers working on the public Human Genome Project .
But Venter says what his company has pulled off is indeed a big deal .
" This is your genetic code , it 's my genetic code , " he said . "
This is our history , this is our evolution , the basis of all humanity . "


New Amiga Stirs Passions

After waiting seven years for a new Amiga , some members of the PC 's fiercely loyal community are spitting mad about the new device .
At the Amiga 2000 show in St. Louis over the weekend , Amiga unveiled a new machine for the platform 's developers based on a 500 MHz AMD K6 processor and a fast 3D graphics system from nVidia .
The machine , a generic PC made from off-the-shelf parts , runs a new hybrid operating system based on Linux and Tao Group 's Elate , a cross-platform operating system that supports Sun 's Java .
The new operating system is n't compatible with current Amiga software .
While Amiga has taken pains to point out the machine is for developers to write code for an as-yet-undefined end-user system , the Amiga community sees it as a harbinger of things to come .
" The hardware is n't Amiga and the software is n't Amiga , " said Michael Battilana , a long-time Amiga developer and president of Cloanto , which publishes an Amiga emulator . "
It is using the Amiga name to attract developers and users .
I consider it a misuse of the Amiga name .
" To me it 's a lot like playing with a dead corpse , " Battilana added . "
They are using the name for this and that . "
Battilana 's sentiments were echoed by another veteran Amiga developer , who asked to remain anonymous for fear of retribution from the company .
" The emperor has no clothes , " he said . "
This Amiga is not really an Amiga at all .
It has nothing to do with the Amiga .
It 's only the name . "
When it was released in the early 1980s , the Amiga was arguably the most advanced PC of its day .
For years it was the most popular consumer machine in Europe and was a favorite among multimedia developers because of its advanced video capabilities .
The platform continues to command fierce loyalty despite almost seven years of neglect as the Amiga name and technology has been passed from owner to owner .
According to the anonymous developer , Amiga users have always been attracted by the close marriage of Amiga software to the underlying hardware .
Now it looks as though the platform is moving to generic , off-the-shelf hardware and an operating system that is hosted , or piggybacked , on another one .
" This is the complete antithesis of the Amiga , " the developer said .
Amiga father " Jay Miner would be rolling in his grave . "
But not all Amiga users are horrified by the prospect of their beloved platform undergoing a radical transformation .
Opinion in Amiga-related newsgroups appears to be divided evenly between those that are skeptical and those willing to wait and see .


Plug In , Log On , and Buy Stuff

The idea is to make it as easy as possible to get online and feed the e-commerce beast .
And what could be easier than just plugging in to the existing power outlet in your home ?
That 's the goal of 13 technology heavyweights who are banding together to form the HomePlug Powerline Alliance , which will establish a single specification for home powerline networking .
Apart from being cheap , home networking using an already-existing source would be available to virtually anyone with electricity , while simplifying the design of new products , the coalition members said .
Participants in the alliance include Microsoft , Intel , Texas Instruments , Cisco , Advance Micro Devices , 3Com , Motorola , and Compaq .
- - -
Politics makes strange webfellows : Believing , apparently , that there are enough political junkies out there to sustain them , three former staffers of Steve Forbes ' failed presidential bid have launched what they 're saying is the first national all-politics radio station on the Web .
Policast.com is a 24-hour-a-day , seven-days-a-week operation , featuring political news , as well as commentary and humor .
" The demand for political news has exploded and we intend to deliver , " said Steve Grubbs , who was a senior adviser to Forbes .
With fewer than 50 percent of eligible voters expected to turn out to pick the next president , it must have been a very quiet explosion .
- - -
Medical records , stat ! : Sun Microsystems has developed technology that allows the instant creation and retrieval of medical records in highly sensitive environments like operating theaters and intensive care units .
Sun said the new system , called Frontiers , will help physicians and nurses to improve patient care by reducing charting errors and eliminating wasteful and inefficient manual work .
Frontiers , which uses Jini technology , was designed to allow medical devices like heart monitors to configure themselves onto a clinical network and begin feeding data into an electronic medical record , Sun officials said .
- - -
More health news : The collaboration between Microsoft and Healtheon/WebMD will yield its first practical results this week with the unveiling of an all-encompassing , Internet-based health-care system built on the Windows 2000 platform .
The new system , which will serve wide areas of the health industry , is built on Windows architecture and delivered on WebMD 's Web site .
It will be demonstrated at a health conference in Dallas .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Honey , There 's a Bug in My Car

SAN FRANCISCO -- Bugs that lurk in computer systems around the world are poised to leap into the new era of post-PC computing -- and that could spell trouble for technology consumers and security experts .
Manufacturers are starting to equip a range of products from cars to refrigerators with programmable computer chips and Internet access -- and since everything that 's connected can become infected , the new world of computing will hold invisible threats .
" There is a trend toward ever more interconnected things , and that 's a concern -- people in these industries will have to go through the same learning curve that they did with personal computers , " said Shawn Hernan , a team leader at CERT Computer Emergency Response Center , a U.S. Defense Department-funded computer security project at Carnegie Mellon University .
The impact of malicious code writers on computers is well known .
In one of the most brazen " denial-of-service " attacks earlier this year , hackers bombarded Yahoo , Amazon.com , and others with millions of messages that brought down their services .
Bringing Web searches and book orders to a screeching halt might not have brought Western civilization to a standstill .
So what if a few finger-twitching Webheads had to go to a bookstore or read a newspaper ?
But what if the attacks caused home heating systems to fail or burglar alarms to ring ?
Or , worse yet , if they were aimed at " 911 " switchboards ?
Those scenarios are n't so far-fetched as they sound .
In fact , computer virus experts last week were tracking down reports that a " zombie " computer attacks already took place at isolated " 911 " emergency switchboards in Texas and Florida .
Computer security firm Symantec Corp. researcher Vincent Weafer called the " 911 bug " a relatively " low-risk event , " since it required a special set of conditions to be activated .
It was " relatively rare -- and not very robust . "
But if the present generation of intrusion is not so frightening , the history of such invasions is that each wave carries a stronger bite .
And once the potency is increased , the attackers will have a wide array of easily available software tools to spread the damage .
In the case of the 911 bug , a simple program made it possible for the " zombie " computer to dial thousands of numbers without any knowledge on the part of the computer 's owner .
The threat of widespread attacks that move beyond the computer is " something that we are all looking at in the computer security field , " said Symantec 's Weafer .
International Business Machines Corp. is placing a high priority on the threat of viral outbreaks in the new world of " ubiquitous computing , " said IBM researcher David Chess .
The researchers worry not only about the growing number of places that need to be protected , but also about the speed with which attacks take place .
" There is a danger in the sense that there are more niches where nasty things can spread faster , " said Chess . "
These outbreaks used to take place over a period of months , or days .
Now it just takes a few hours . "
IBM 's team is studying ways to immunize entire networks against attack with software " modeled after biological systems . "
A growing number of programmable devices will require that computer security systems work with such sophistication , with the ability to track down intrusions over networks and apply antidotes in real-time .
" There are thousands of places where malicious code can come in , " said Sal Viveros , computer virus products marketing manager at Network Associates Inc. "
As more devices become Internet-aware , from Web TV 's to refrigerators to palm computers , they add more functionality .
And once they become programmable they can carry malicious code . "
Since more portals are opening all the time , Viveros said , computer intrusion experts are concentrating on protecting the infrastructure -- the Internet service providers and networks used to carry the invasions .
" Interdependence of global infrastructures is a fairly serious concern , " said CERT 's Hernan . "
The potential is fairly significant .
You could imagine someone writing a robot piece of code that could spread fairly quickly dialing 911 or otherwise impact things outside the Internet . "
IBM 's Chess said " it 's not a doomed world yet , " since the devices are only now being built and many manufacturers learned their lessons when the outbreaks hit personal computers .
CERT 's Hernan said that security experts need to make a concerted effort to educate manufacturers about potential dangers when they make their new products programmable .
" We got all these things under development for controlling home devices , things that turn on the lights , turn temperature up and down , start the coffee maker boiling , " said Hernan . "
There is potential for abuse when they 're connected , and manufacturers have to be aware of that . "




HGP Head Refutes Celera 's Claim

The director of the public effort to map the human genetic code said the private company that claimed last week to beat them to the punch really did n't .
Celera Genomics drew widespread publicity and sparked a market rally for biotech shares last week when it said it had finished the first step in mapping the human genome .
But Dr. Francis Collins , head of the Human Genome Project , a nonprofit , international research consortium , said Celera Genomics did n't complete even half of its planned effort .
" You should not take at face value any claim by any group for at least two years that says ' we have finished sequencing a human genome sequence .
' It will not be true , " Collins said prior to a conference in Vancouver , Canada , on Sunday .
Collins said that Celera had claimed it would replicate the sequencing data 10 times for accuracy , but only did so three times before moving on to later phases of the mapping process .
" All of us need to be very careful in our language .
When somebody says ' done ' or ' finished ' or ' completed ' you need to ask them what their definition is because the answers may be very interesting , " Collins said .
Mapping the human genome promises to give researchers insight into the function and variation between genes to help discover new drugs and disease diagnostics .
The Human Genome Project hopes to have a working draft -- including 90 percent of the human DNA sequence -- by early June , and a final version by 2003 .
To date the project has reached 83 percent of its sequencing goal .
The project is a consortium of 16 labs in the United States , France , Germany , Great Britain , and Japan , and posts its sequencing information every 24 hours at GenBank , a Web site that is free for anyone to use .
Celera 's data is not yet available , and although it has been accused of wanting to charge researchers to use the information , the company has promised it will publish and make its genome map openly available for free when it is complete .
Paul Gilman , a spokesman for Celera , stood by the company 's Thursday announcement saying it was " very precise , " although he said that some public statements about the sequencing effort were " very simplistic and confusing . "
" It 's unfortunate that Dr. Collins ' response has to be so negative , but we stand by the statement , " Gilman said , according to the Associated Press .
About 1,000 scientists from 50 countries are meeting this week at the Vancouver conference to discuss the Human Genome Project .
Shares of Celera closed at 103 , down 27 3/8 .
CRA
Reuters contributed to this report .




A Chilling Wave Hits Schools

Columbine .
That word never fails to dredge up thoughts of misery and terror since the student massacre left 15 dead just over one year ago .
And there 's nothing quite like fear to open up the path for new rules and regulations , new policies and plans .
That might explain why North Carolina has quietly launched a program that allows students to call in anonymously or fill out a Web-based form to report on classmates who might appear depressed or angry -- or who just scare them .
The WAVE program -- Working Against Violence Everywhere -- is being offered to all middle and high schools in North Carolina .
The website , Waveamerica.com , and the hotline are operated by Pinkerton Services Group , a subsidiary of Pinkerton Securities .
Here 's how it works .
A classmate brags about bringing a gun to school .
He says he 's going to do something serious .
Everyone laughs and blows him off .
But one student is worried .
So she logs onto the site and fills out a form describing what she just heard .
Or she picks up the phone and calls the hotline , and tells an operator as much as she can remember .
Because this situation would be considered immediately dangerous , a Pinkerton employee would immediately call the school 's contact person , no matter what time it is , and relay the message .
The rest is in the school 's hands .
The program has the wholehearted support of North Carolina Governor James B. Hunt .
Of North Carloina 's roughly 800 middle and high schools , about 50 are participating in WAVE , but it 's unclear how many students have used the program since it began Feb. 10 , Pinkerton officials said .
" This program will go a long way toward reinforcing ethical responsibility , teaching the early warning signs of threatening behavior , and opening channels of communication that foster positive action , " Hunt said in a statement , " and it is the right thing to do . "
But civil liberties and privacy advocates say that in the interest of the elusive goal of protection , civil rights -- especially those of kids -- have been pushed aside .
Marty Greer , legal committee chair of the American Civil Liberties Union in North Carolina , called the program " horrifying . "
She said WAVE is a knee-jerk reaction that does little to address the source of violence .


Solar Storm Sparks Night Lights

Northern Europe was treated to a spectacular display of the Aurora Borealis Thursday night , thanks to a severe solar storm that unexpectedly affected most of the Earth .
The solar storm -- the first major storm in more than a decade -- treated sky-watchers across Europe and as far west as the East Coast of the United States to some of the most breathtaking displays of the Northern Lights in recent memory .
" I 've just spent the last two hours gazing up at a sky literally on fire with swaying red curtains and billowing veils of pale green and white streamers , " one observer told the BBC . "
Beams are everywhere .
At one point , everything merged overhead , and staring up at it was like staring into some kind of pink worm hole . Unbelievable . "
The lights , which are normally only visible in polar regions , were triggered by a massive solar flare ejected from the Sun on Tuesday .
The flare was first detected by ACE , a probe monitoring the solar wind that is about a million miles closer to the Sun than the Earth .
ACE made the news earlier this week when it passed through the exceptionally long tail of Comet Hyakutake .
The stream of extremely fast-moving particles hit the planet at approximately 12:40 p.m. EDT , about an hour after ACE detected it .
The storm was centered over Ireland , although the aurora was seen on the Eastern Seaboard , according to Boulder , Colorado 's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 's Space Environment Center .
The storm is expected to continue into Saturday , the center said .
Although the eye of the storm will rotate westward towards the United States from Ireland , it is unlikely to produce anything as spectacular as Thursday night 's fireworks .
" The storm is kind of dwindling down , " said Larry Combs , a space weather forecaster at the center . "
You will have to go up to Greenland to see some lights . "
Friday night
However , Combs said displays of the Northern Lights will likely become common as far south as Massachusetts , the Midwest , and even Northern California as we enter a period of intense solar activity known as the solar maximum .
During the solar maximum , which has an 11-year cycle , the center predicts 100 " severe " solar storms and four " extreme " events .
Thursday night 's storm was the first severe storm in the current cycle .
During the last solar maximum , in 1989 , an " extreme " solar storm knocked out Quebec 's power system , which took months to fix .
" Eleven years ago , we did n't have nearly as many satellites we depend on for telephone hookups and other communications , " Coombs said . "
The potential for disruption is much , much greater . "
Solar storms are created by sun spots , or solar flares , that emit huge numbers of electronically charged particles .
When the stream of particles hits the Earth 's magnetic field , the interaction causes the light displays known as the Aurora Borealis .




True Consciousness of Stream

NEW YORK -- Will streaming media go the way of push technology , or will it become a mainstream hit on PCs , televisions , and handheld devices ?
Wednesday , at the Kagan Streaming Media Summit , a group of media and technology experts offered predictions on the future for streaming media , and how new and traditional broadcasters will survive in this emerging market .
Panelists said the explosion of wireless technology and broadband connections will be a boon to businesses that broadcast live and archived events to PCs , TVs , set-top boxes , handheld computers , and other wireless devices .
But traditional broadcasters may have a distinct advantage in the streaming media business because , above all , exclusive and compelling content is what draws people to a site .
" The opportunity for us is to create that customizable experience for people with high speed connections , and they can watch the pieces in any order they like , " said Bernard Gershon , general manager of ABCNews.com .
ABC is currently using its traditional on-air talents , including Sam Donaldson , Chris Wallace , Barbara Walters , and Peter Jennings , to do online-only pieces .
More and more , interaction and customization will play a part in their plans , he said .
" I do n't think it 's going to be a better experience in the next couple years to watch Peter Jennings do ' World News Tonight ' through your computer , " said Gershon . "
People will toggle back and forth , and be able to dig deeper into that story , or may want to buy Sam Donaldson 's hair piece .
Though I 'm not saying that he has a hair piece . "
After consumers worldwide spent $ 60 billion to buy CDs , videos , and games from traditional physical retailers last year , media companies are licking their chops to expand and redirect some of this business online .
Jonathan Taplin , CEO of Intertainer , described some of the critical components of a successful streaming media system : a platform-independent client ; support for multiple bit rates and devices ; a digital rights management system with end-to-end encryption ; intelligent agents ; and complete video interactivity .
While some of these technologies have already been developed , many of them are in the beta stage , or just are n't up to snuff .
Bob Davis , vice president of sales at iBeam Broadcasting , said the technology for streaming over the Internet is n't ready yet for prime-time programming .
" They are as concerned about the quality of the broadcast right now as they are about the reach , " Davis said . "
his media clients
They know there 's great reach , they know it 's complementary , but they are not used to their artistic works being seen in a way that is of typical Internet quality .
The Internet destroys streaming media in its current incarnation . "
When the technology is in place , he said , the strength of the Internet will be the two-way interaction , where music companies are now leading the way .
" The beauty of the interactive entertainment experience are things like Launch and MTVi , where I go to the radio stations , I listen to them , and if I do n't like the song , I click I do n't like it and I never hear it again ... so I 'm actually programming my own entertainment model accessible from anywhere on the Internet , " Davis explained .
Rich Lappenbusch , from Microsoft 's media division , said that technology will allow for a range of different opportunities for entertainment companies to recoup their investments online : personalized , targeted promotion and advertising , selling downloads , renting content for a day or a week , and video on demand are some of the models .


Toward ' Safer ' Mobile E-Biz

LONDON -- The world 's top three mobile phone manufacturers teamed up on Tuesday in an attempt to secure the growth of e-commerce by developing an open , global industry framework for safer and simpler business over cellphones .
Dismissing concerns that current Internet-enabled phones were unsafe , Sweden 's Ericsson , Motorola of the United States , and Finland 's Nokia called on industry peers to jump aboard their initiative and ensure that customers could use mobile phones for trusted , electronic transactions .
" A mobile device will be the platform to bridge the virtual and physical worlds of e-business , " said Matti Alahuhta , president of Nokia 's mobile phones division .
" Integrating security and transaction applications on a common core standard and platform will create a global mass market for mobile e-business , " he added .
Encoding data sent over airwaves , establishing its authenticity , ensuring confidentiality and preventing its unauthorized modification and use is seen as vital to unleash the potential for a booming virtual business world .
And the companies said the initiative was the key to ensure that growth projections were met .
Ericsson forecasts there will be around 1 billion mobile telephone users and some 600 million mobile Internet subscribers worldwide by 2004 .
Alahuhta conceded that WAP mobile phones , which allow Internet access , carried no guarantee that transactions were being made by the phone 's owner .
wireless application protocol
The answer lies partially in WAP security functions such as WTLS and WIM , which will act as a user-ID for access to the Internet and offer the authentication for e-business that cellphone Internet transactions currently lack .
wireless transport layer security
wireless indentification module
The three industry heavyweights said their initiative went further than that of Radicchio , a 36-member consortium of technology and telecoms firms across Europe , the United States , and Japan which have also called for more secure mobile e-commerce .
Radicchio backs Finnish Sonera 's technology solution , a so-called public key infrastructure-based framework , which could be used as a global standard to ensure that any data sent is scrambled into a tough code to make it hacker proof .
Ericsson , Motorola , and Nokia also hope to establish an industry standard for a digital signature that will provide the authentication -- ensuring the indentity of users -- that is necessary for secure mobile e-commerce .
" The mobile device can be a tool for a variety of services , such as banking and trading services , credit card and payment services , loyalty/bonus services and ID-card services , " the companies said .
" The aim is to offer solutions where security and payment services will be integrated as a standard into hundreds of millions of mobile devices in years to come . "
The three companies said they would issue technical and other details about the initiative by the end of May on their websites and hope to formulate an open framework before the summer .




TV for Generations X and Y

NEW YORK -- The first generation of streaming media interactive TV companies are staking their claims now , even though success -- or failure -- is several years off , say new media company officials attending the Kagan Streaming Media conference here .
With broadband access ramping up significantly in the next three years via DSL , cable modems , and satellites , content producers are jockeying for position to broadcast high quality audio and video to millions of people .
The question is how and what will be delivered .
Mark Greenberg , executive vice president of strategy at Showtime Event television , said at the conference Thursday that there are about 40 million PCs in the United States that sit in the same room as a TV set , and about 18 million PCs and TVs that are on simultaneously .
" Do they come together into one box , or do we move them together ?
That 's a question that remains to be seen , " he said .
But with cable and services like DirecTV already entrenched , what more do people want ?
Rick Davis , CEO of 21e Network , has a digital video production studio in Nashville , Tennessee that broadcasts a range of live , streaming content channels via the Web , tying in e-commerce with original programs .
Davis said that when his network broadcast the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire primaries , viewers stayed on for almost four hours a day .
When he talks about the Internet of the future , he sees it merging into a TV-like experience .
" What we see coming is a new comfort seat ... and it is entertaining , enjoyable , immersive , and interactive .
So what we 've done is taken those things on television and put them together with an interactive experience .
We do n't think it 's the content they come to see , it 's the entire experience . "
Davis said interactive TV will happen in the next 12 to 24 months , driven by hardware and infrastructure companies that are ramping up services fast .
But even when the bandwidth is available , content producers will have to be cautious about what they offer .
" The consumption of audio and video has been increasing very rapidly , and at the same time the consumption of books , magazines , and newspapers has been declining , " said Jeff Mandelbaum , president of Global Media Corp. "
But nonetheless , consumers have a limited amount of time they are willing to invest in the consumption of AV media .
So how do you make that the most compelling experience ? "
Mandelbaum said most of the content on the Internet right now is not very compelling .
He said new media broadcasters need a broad choice of programs , an interactive experience that considers the audience , and the integration of a wide range of technologies such as Flash , JPEGs , and streaming and static content .
Robert Meryowitz , CEO of a talk-radio site called eYada.com , said , " Things really do n't change all that much .
We think that they are major changes , but they are small changes that eventually add up to big changes , " he said .


MS Remedies ?
Rumors Abound

Now that a federal judge in the Microsoft trial has said what he always said he would say , rumors about the impending punishment are reaching a high pitch .
Even the venerable Wall Street Journal got caught up in the feeding frenzy and published a story in its online edition Monday morning , reporting that the government may force Microsoft to grant royalty-free licenses to its Internet Explorer Web browser , opening up the code to its secret software .
The story was quietly pulled from the site a few hours later , and Journal spokesman Dick Tofel would only say " it should n't have been posted in the first place . "
But it was , and wire services picked up the item and cheerfully spread it around the Internet .
Microsoft watchers discounted the story as nothing more than a rumor , probably the first of many over the next few weeks .
A hearing on remedies in the case is scheduled for May 24 .
" I think the reality is there a lot of things being talked about but nothing 's been decided , " said Ed Black , president of the Computer & Communication Industry Association .
He said lawyers from the Justice Department and 19 states that filed the lawsuit almost two years ago are discussing a wide array of options , and are unlikely to jump on one small remedy like this one .
" Discussing it does n't mean much , " he said . "
It 's like a waiter bringing different dishes by the table for you to choose . "
If Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson were to order the software giant to relinquish its rights to the browser software , Black said it would n't be nearly enough of a remedy .
" It 's kind of like trying to hold back a river with a wire fence , " he said . "
If that were all that came down , I 'd wonder who threw the fight . "
Microsoft 's defenders counter that if such a remedy did come down , it would be a blow to intellectual property rights everywhere .
" The reason we lost our world technology leadership was because of government intervention , " Association for Competitive Technology president Jonathan Zuck said .
Zuck said ordering Microsoft to open up the source code to its software browser is n't " inherently a bad thing , " but simultaneously forcing the company to un-bundle its software from its operating software would harm the IT industry as a whole .
While the pundits continue to square off on the efficacy of the alleged remedy , one user on a Microsoft message board on RagingBull.com had this to say about the Explorer proposal :
" Big deal .
That 's not where the money is anyway . "




Why the Bubble 's in Trouble

The problem with a stock bubble is you never really know it is one until it pops .
That was a lesson learned the hard way for tulip investors in 17th century Holland .
It is a lesson that Internet investors at the turn of the millennium have , until recently , assiduously avoided learning .
But lately , after months of run-ups , record-breaking IPOs , and an investment climate approaching euphoric , the tech stock market has been curtailing its excesses .
Newly public companies have taken a hit in the aftermarket , while former high-flyers like eToys and CDNow have seen shares plummet .
At the same time , fears are surfacing that a number of once-promising dot coms are nearly out of cash .
The downturn has spurred a renewed round of speculation that the so-called Internet bubble -- that vast pile of paper wealth tied up in New Economy stocks -- is poised to get a lot more air sucked out of it .
But industry analysts say it may not happen as quickly or as dramatically as one might expect .
" The bubble is n't going to burst .
It 'll just deflate , " said David Menlow , president of IPOFinancial.com , who predicts a gradual slowdown bringing Net stock prices closer to earth .
The vision was shared by a number of academics , Wall Street analysts , executives , and venture capitalists who , in the wake of last week 's record-setting week of volatility on the Nasdaq exchange , offered their views on how and when the Internet wealth boom will reverse course .
Their conclusion : The Internet stock market is entering a far less giddy phase .
Although investors are n't shifting out of the industry in droves , they are getting pickier about which companies they hold on to and how much they 're willing to pay for shares .
It 's not so much the big crash , however , as an " important corrective trend " -- the phrase Merrill Lynch chief market analyst Richard McCabe used Monday .
McCabe predicts more ups and downs ahead for Internet stocks , rather than an across-the-board decline .
Still , that 's causing some pain along the way .
" Clearly , the markets are moving out of this hyper-growth period into a more rational growth period , " said Gregory Hawkins , CEO of Buy.com , one of the companies that has taken a big hit in recent weeks .
BUYX
Shares of Buy.com , which peaked above $ 35 during the company 's February IPO , have since slumped to $ 8 .
The stock drop comes amid a broader decline in shares of online retailers this year .
Market watchers are still searching for the best term to characterize the downturn .
" I 'm not so sure if I 'd call it a bubble or more a realization that cash flows do matter , " said Todd Pulvino , a finance professor at Kellogg Graduate School of Management .
Pulvino is another member of the camp predicting a gradual pullback , rather than a free fall , for Internet stocks .
" Stock bubble " is not just a metaphor , said Eric Brynjolfsson , a professor at MIT 's Sloan School of Management who specializes in e-commerce .
It 's actually a term economists use to describe unrealistically optimistic valuations .
Traditionally , stocks are valued based on what economists call the present value of future earnings .
That is , investors buy stock in company based on what it makes now , plus what it 's expected to make down the road .
In a bubble , however , investors overvalue a company 's future earnings .
A company that might never turn a large profit might be worth billions -- setting the stage for a steep fall .
Given that definition , it would seem at first glance that Net stocks are a classic bubble .
Most Net companies are unprofitable , or barely profitable , and their stocks have garnered huge valuations .


Yahoo Nazi Sales Protested

PARIS -- A Paris-based anti-racism group said on Tuesday it was taking Internet portal Yahoo to court over the sale of Nazi memorabilia on one of the Web sites it hosts .
The International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism , which called in February for a boycott of Yahoo sites for the same reason , said it was seeking an injunction in a Paris court to force the California-based company to stop the sales in France .
LICRA
" LICRA demands that Yahoo take the necessary measures to prevent the exhibition and sale on its sites of Nazi objects throughout the national territory , " the group said in a statement .
Judicial sources said a hearing was set for May 15 .
LICRA said it would ask the judge to order Yahoo to pay a daily fine of 100,000 euros until it complies with the injunction .
$ 95,880
A Yahoo.com auction site puts hundreds of Nazi or neo-Nazi , or Ku Klux Klan objects up for auction each day , including films , swastikas , uniforms , daggers , photos , and medals .
Under French law , it is illegal to exhibit or sell objects with racist overtones .
" This sale of symbols of the greatest-ever crime against humanity trivializes Nazism in the extreme , " LICRA said .
LICRA did not say how access to a worldwide website could be blocked in France only .
Yahoo came under fire in February from another anti-racism group , the Anti-Defamation League , which accused the Web service provider of hosting dozens of sites that promoted messages from racist hate groups including neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan .




Dot Coms on Shaky Ground

SAN FRANCISCO -- For most San Francisco Bay Area Johnny-dot-com-Latelys , Wednesday 's near stock market crash was probably the closest thing to a natural disaster they 've ever seen .
Whoa , my whole Lexus payment flashed before my eyes !
But tomorrow , maybe , or the next day , or the day after that , there 's going to be a real natural disaster in these parts : The Big One .
Not many dot-com businesses are prepared for a big earthquake , experts say , and that means a significant temblor in the e-commerce/Internet epicenter could send shock waves throughout the virtual world .
" As you know , air-traffic problems at one location in the country can back up traffic nationwide , " said Peter Neumann , who chronicles information-age security risks in Risks Digest and is principal scientist at SRI International 's Computer Science Laboratory . "
A Net outage on the West Coast can affect people all over the world . "
The problem is not with Northern California 's Net infrastructure .
While parts of it may drop offline , much of it has been well fortified to withstand a quake of about 7.0 on the Richter scale , experts say .
But they say the Big One will be at least an 8.0 .
The 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake that sandwiched an East Bay Freeway and knocked out a portion of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge was a 7.1 .
All of California , of course , is known as virulent earthquake country .
Deadly earthquakes have struck up and down the coast , including several devastating ones in the state 's most populous city , Los Angeles .
But while hundreds of thousands of Internet users live in Southern California , the Net 's infrastructure remains about 400 miles north .
The Bay Area 's big ISPs are mostly in sturdy buildings with multiple fiber loops , generators , and lots of spare fuel .
If the Big One hits , the Net 's main pipes should remain , for the most part , open .
But much of the content that normally flows through those pipes could disappear .
" There are a whole lot of dot-com companies who have no idea about earthquake preparation , " said Emily Freeman , practice leader for e-business risk solutions at Marsh Inc. , a company that insures Web firms . "
They 're just trying to get their applications out and get first to market .
They do n't even get around to addressing issues . "
earthquake
Others think about earthquakes and shrug off the threat .
" The challenge that we face in the disaster industry , our No. 1 enemy , is denial , " said Brent Woodworth , manager of IBM 's crisis response team .
Preparation for quakes means redundancy : website data hosted on computer servers in diverse locations , some of them outside the Bay Area ; redundant circuits to the ISP ; and redundant service providers .
If one building falls down or burns or loses power , if one strand of fiber is broken in the ground , backups take on the load .
" You 've got to have a backup solution in a completely different part of the country , " Freeman said . "
Putting one server in Palo Alto and one in Mountain View does n't do a whole lot , because they 're still exposed to the same threat . "
California
adjacent
Jay Adelson , founder and CTO of Equinix , a company that builds elaborately secure facilities that house both ISPs and website servers , said the majority of e-commerce companies have data located either in the Bay Area or the Washington metro area .


Big Brother Is the Network

TORONTO -- The trend toward network computing could endanger privacy rights , an expert said Friday .
As more and more information is stored on networks and increased computation is performed on remote servers , the corporations that control those machines can conduct surreptitious surveillance , said Whit Diffie , the co-discoverer of modern cryptography .
" Now we have centralized control .
We have technology reunited with the corporate propertarian view , " Diffie said during a Friday luncheon address at the Computers , Freedom and Privacy conference .
Diffie , an engineer at Sun Microsystems , said one reason he always distrusted mainframes and mainframe culture was the system administrator 's unrestricted ability to snoop through individual accounts .
" I was very relieved when the personal computer appeared , " Diffie said . "
This was a technology far more congenial to a free society than time-sharing was . "
On most personal computers and workstations , users can store files on their local hard drives , away from potentially prying eyes of system administrators .
But the Internet has rolled back the clock .
Scores of websites offer free email stored on a centralized server .
That causes vulnerabilities , as Microsoft 's Hotmail demonstrated with its security breach .
" Unfortunately , the network computer has been reincarnated , " Diffie said .
In 1976 , Diffie and Stanford University electrical engineering professor Martin Hellman announced they discovered a new way to protect secrets : a technology called public-key encryption , which changed the way data-scrambling worked .
Historian David Kahn has dubbed it " the most revolutionary new concept in the field since the Renaissance . "
Diffie has since become a prominent advocate of cryptography , testifying before congressional committees and advising legislators to abandon export controls .
He said his worst nightmare from back in the days of room-filling mainframes is that there would be " one computer in Denver and everyone in the country would have to use it and the secret police would control it . "




Gene Boost for AIDS Vaccine

Adding an immune system gene to an AIDS vaccine makes it work better and may be a first step toward stemming the spread of the deadly disease , researchers say .
Although they say they are still a long way away from coming up with a vaccine that will completely protect people from the HIV virus , the researchers think their approach could at least help people stay healthier if they do become infected , and make them less likely to transmit the infection to others .
" We will have a dramatic impact on quality of life , a dramatic impact on duration of life , and we may have a significant impact on transmission , " said Norman Letvin , an AIDS vaccine expert at Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital and Harvard Medical School in Boston .
Letvin and colleagues at Harvard , Duke University , Merck Research Laboratories and the Henry Jackson Foundation in Rockville , Maryland , were trying to find ways to make vaccines known as DNA vaccines work better .
There are several ways to boost the immune system so it can better fend off infections .
For example , polio vaccines use either a whole virus that has been killed , or a live virus that has been attenuated , or weakened .
Live viruses so far have been too dangerous to use with HIV , which seems to be able to reconstitute itself in the body , and using dead HIV does not work very well .
So many researchers are working with key pieces of HIV 's genetic material .
But , as Letvin and colleagues wrote in the current issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , some studies have suggested that this approach may not be enough , either .
They decided to boost it by adding natural immune system compounds that can help recruit immune system cells to battle the virus .
" We are giving the natural proteins in the body that have the capability to augment this response , " Letvin said .
They tried interleukin-2 , which is a cytokine or immune system signaling chemical that can help call in CD8 cells , also known as killer T-cells .
IL-2
They already had a DNA vaccine that uses bits of DNA from the virus that the immune system can recognize .
They tested 16 monkeys , giving some a dummy injection , and others the HIV DNA alone , or the HIV DNA plus the IL-2 protein , or an artificially constructed gene that codes for production of IL-2 along with the HIV DNA .
The monkeys that got the vaccine along with the IL-2 gene -- made up in a form known as a plasmid -- had 30 times the antibody response of monkeys receiving the DNA vaccine alone , Letvin 's team reported .
" If we give in the form of a gene instead of a protein , we do even better , which astonishes me , " Letvin said .
IL-2
Antibodies flag invaders for other cells to kill , but sometimes an antibody response is not enough .
This is the case with HIV .
But the DNA vaccine plus the IL-2 gene also got a response from the other half of the immune system , generating five times at many CD8 killer T-cells as the plain vaccine .
Letvin 's team is now preparing to report on whether this better protects the monkeys from an actual infection .
He says such a vaccine will be no cure for HIV but might help people who do become infected develop a milder form of disease . "
If we can change our definition of what an effective vaccine is , we may have it now , " he said .
He noted that 95 percent of those infected with HIV live in developing countries and will never get the drugs that are keeping many patients in rich countries alive and healthy .
But he thinks a vaccine would be more available .
" The world can afford to vaccinate six and a half billion people , " he said . "
I think there would be the political will in the world to do this . "




E-Tailing : Doom or Huge Boom ?

NEW YORK -- The combination of weak financial structure , mounting competitive pressures , and investor flight will drive most Web retailers out of business by 2001 , a leading Internet research firm said in a report .
Even so , cocksure Web retailers are brushing off predictions of their impending doom , insisting that it is only a matter of time before the tide that has already washed out a handful of them starts to turn in their favor again , said the report issued by Forrester Research .
After interviewing 50 e-commerce players , Internet analyst Joe Sawyer and his colleagues at the Cambridge , Massachusetts-based Forrester concluded a drastic shakeout is coming soon .
The latest evidence that dot-com retailers are struggling to stay afloat came earlier this month when auditors for Web grocer Peapod , online health firm drkoop.com , and Web music retailer CDNow questioned each company 's ability to continue as a going concern .
" Online retail 's honeymoon is over , " Sawyer said . "
In the past three months , familiar names like Beyond.com and CyberShop closed their doors to consumers , Amazon.com and Boo.com laid off employees and Wall Street hammered the stock prices of dot-com leaders .
This is n't temporary turbulence . "
He said Internet retailers are being squeezed as their profit margins fall and their expenses rise .
Competition will also intensify , as traditional retailers such as Wal-Mart and Toys R Us get their second wind and pursue major Internet initiatives , while financial support will flounder as investors and venture capitalists lose interest , Sawyer predicted .
" Online merchants that smugly insist their brands and site design translate into financial assets will only fan the flames of investor scorn when profits do n't materialize , " he said .
In addition , Forrester predicted consolidation among product categories in three stages : the " critical " stage , which includes books , music , and software ; the " intensive care " stage , which includes pets , toys , and consumer electronics ; and the " stable " stage , which harbors apparel furniture and shoes .
" Retail has endured consolidation before , " Sawyer said . "
These battles produced no more than three dominant victors -- enough players to keep their industries competitive yet still profitable . "
Still , few of the retailers interviewed said they were concerned with profitability , as fewer than 40 percent said they expected to be out of the red before 2002 .
Many of them are convinced that to focus on profitability would cloud their ability to establish leadership in the market .
So where exactly do these companies expect to get the funds to keep their businesses afloat ?
Sawyer said money from independent and institutional investors is thinning out , as are funds from venture capitalists .
" Dot-com entrepreneurs tapped eager investors for millions , planted flags in new categories from pets to perfume , and blew their budgets on marketing chatter , " Sawyer said . "
Wall Street loved it ... but the tide is turning against dot-coms . "
And more than one-third of the companies interviewed did not know where they were going to get additional funding .




' Talking ' Packages Foil Fakes

PURCHASE , New York -- Have you every wondered if that expensive French perfume you just bought is the real thing or just a bad copy made in Taiwan ?
International Paper Co. , the world 's largest paper company , and No. 2 mobile phone maker Motorola Inc. have teamed up to battle counterfeiting by creating " smart packages . "
International Paper expects the first products to be smart-packaged by the end of this year .
The new packaging will contain embedded tags made out of silicon and ink that can " talk " to manufacturers , distributors , and retailers throughout the supply chain , enhancing inventory control and security .
In addition , an identifier placed in high-value consumer goods such as pharmaceuticals , perfumes , and cigarettes , can aid in defending against theft and counterfeiting .
In the United States , an estimated $ 250 billion in yearly waste is attributable to inefficiency in the distribution of products from manufacturers to consumers .
Retail counterfeiting was responsible for about $ 70 billion in losses last year , according to International Paper .
" Customers always ask us for better and safer ways to package their products , " said Jack Cox , spokesman at International Paper . "
And after our Shorewood acquisition , IP has moved further into high-end retail and packaging , such as computer parts and high-end perfumes , " Cox added .
By completing the purchase of Shorewood Packaging Corp. in early April , International Paper has added customers that have a keen interest in safer and more efficient packaging , including Motorola , Japanese electronics firm Sony Corp. , Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. 's Clairol beauty products unit and food , beverage and tobacco leader Philip Morris .
" In the next 60 to 90 days we are searching out the best markets to first implement ' smart packages , ' " said Cox , adding that International Paper has tested smart-tag demos in its own consumer package research laboratories and has been satisfied with the results .
The new smart packages use Motorola 's new BiStatix radio frequency identification technology , which combines silicon with printed ink .
Thursday 's announcement signals Motorola 's first venture with a packaging company , said Deb Montner , a spokeswoman for Motorola .
" Smart tags " in the products ' labels emit radio signals that allow companies and stores to " communicate " with the packaged products continuously .
BiStatix smart labels can be created more cost effectively than earlier generations of RFID technology-enabled labels .
" It is not costly at all for International Paper to implement this new technology into our packaging , " said Cox .
" Eventually , smart packaging could also be used for the corrugated boxes which contain the high-end perfume boxes , for example .
In that way distributors can tell if there are any missing inside and whether they 've been tampered with just by scanning the smart tag and without having to open up the box . "




Lord of the Download

LOS ANGELES -- Frodo Baggins . Mordor .
Middle Earth .
If those words have you reaching for your sword hilt , then you 're probably one of the fanatic fans of Lord of the Rings responsible for downloading a two-minute chunk of the movie trailer from New Line Cinema 1.7 million times in the first 24 hours following its release April 7 .
That 's a record number for any film download -- including last year 's Star Wars : The Phantom Menace craze .
And it 's all the more interesting because the film does n't even debut until December 2001 .
" This was beyond our wildest dreams , " said Joe Nimziki , New Line 's director of theatrical marketing . "
We all wanted to succeed so much .
the trailer
In the last 20 years , readership for The Lord of the Rings has really fallen off .
We want to educate a younger generation about just how cool these books are . "
The Blair Witch Project , produced by unknowns on a miniscule budget , also had a cult following a year before its release .
But Lord of the Rings is a different animal : a big-budget film with stars like Elijah Wood from a major Hollywood studio that has produced hits like the Friday the 13th movies and Magnolia .
Internet fans ' enthusiasm for the film " is a sign of things to come , " said Internet entertainment analyst Peter Clemente of Cyber Dialogue . "
There is no better way to build a grassroots campaign than on the Web , and in the not-too-distant future every studio is going to be doing it . "
That might sound obvious in Silicon Valley , but most mainline Hollywood studios think of the Web as an ancillary part of their marketing .
The real work -- advertising on television , radio , billboards , and print -- is done largely in the four to six weeks before a movie is released .
And conventional wisdom here has it that a movie 's fate at the box office is decided in the first 24 hours after its release .
A response on the Internet like that received by The Lord of the Rings " shatters those old marketing paradigms , " Clemente said .
New Line helped amplify the number of downloads for the film trailer by giving fan sites access to it .
Strictly speaking , this is n't the first time Lord of the Rings footage has been shown in public .
It actually debuted earlier this year before an audience of theater owners at their annual ShoWest convention in Las Vegas .
But it 's the first time rabid fans got their chance to view a brief battle scene , along with interviews with Wood and director Peter Jackson .
The footage is from the first in a projected trilogy that will be shot consecutively in New Zealand .
The three films are based on the three books in the original trilogy by J.R.R. Tolkien : The Fellowship of the Ring , The Two Towers , and The Return of the King -- one of the most popular fantasy franchises of all time .
The film also stars Ian McKellen , Liv Tyler , Cate Blanchett , Ian Holm , and Viggo Mortensen .
New Line 's new media chief Gordon Paddison said the success of the trailer on the Web was n't serendipitous , noting that he has been working with the top 30 to 50 fans sites over the last year .
" I 've been exchanging emails at one in the morning with anybody who wanted to talk about the film . "




Sony Wielding a Smaller Stick

TOKYO -- Sony Corp 's popular Memory Stick , a chewing gum-size data storehouse used in digital gadgetry from cameras to personal computers to Walkman personal stereos , is set to get even smaller .
The Japanese electronics giant said it would launch a smaller version of its Memory Stick data storage device , about half the size of the original , as it races to stay ahead of rival memory device makers .
The " Memory Stick Duo " will be launched in the first quarter of 2001 and , like its predecessor , will offer either 32- or 64-megabit capacity in the same tiny frame , Sony said .
The smaller device will allow Sony to develop smaller audio and visual products , and is also small enough to use in modems and Bluetooth devices -- mobile gadgets that can communicate with each other without wires .
Duo is smaller than Secure Digital Memory Cards -- a rival medium -- and will be compatible with existing Memory Stick products with the use of an adapter .
SD
The latest announcement came after the Tokyo stock market closed .
Sony shares ended down 4.68 percent at 13,450 yen ( US $127)in a market depressed by recent weakness in U.S. high-tech shares .
Sony 's made its announcement just as 71 high-tech and software firms from around the world , including Compaq Computer Corp and Hewlett Packard , gathered across town in Tokyo 's central business district to discuss setting and promoting industry standards for SD Memory Cards .
The Sony and SD camps have been vying to dominate the fast-growing market for memory devices using flash-memory chips , which retain their data even if the power source is cut off .
SD Memory Cards and audio players are being developed by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co , Toshiba Corp and U.S.-based SanDisk Corp for launch in the spring of this year .
While Sony already has the lead in compact memory devices for the audio market , after launching a Memory Stick Walkman that can download music from the Internet , SD boosters said the breadth of their camp would give them the lion 's share of the potentially lucrative market .
" We 're looking to promote global adoption of SD cards across a wide range of applications and markets , " Secure Digital Association President Ray Creech told a news conference . "
And the breadth of the participating companies shows the importance of our association . "
The association hopes to establish standard specifications for the next generation of SD Memory Card applications , such as moving picture and Bluetooth technology , by the end of this year .
While Sony appears outnumbered by the SD side , Sony officials were confident the Memory Stick would not meet the same unhappy fate as its Betamax video technology , which was relegated to niche markets after Sony refused to license it to other manufacturers .
The rival VHS format quickly became the industry standard .
" We 're not worried about numbers , " said Masaharu Yanaga , Senior General Manager of Sony 's Memory Stick Division .
Sony has been actively recruiting firms to license its Memory Stick technology , and as of late February , 46 companies including General Motors Corp and Hitachi Ltd were licensed to develop and make hardware using the device .
Sony Corporate Vice President Yutaka Nakagawa said the company does not plan to standardise specifications for its Memory Stick to make it compatible with SD Memory Cards and does not believe having two incompatible memory devices will inconvenience consumers .
" This market has huge potential and I think various media can co-exist , " he said .




Net Fort Opens to Mixed Reviews

SAN JOSE , California -- The opening of the new bomb-proof Internet shelter here Tuesday was a bit like a Mafia wedding that could n't decide whether it wanted to be top-secret or front-page news .
In the end , it ended up being neither .
The shelter , operated by Redwood City , California-based Equinix , is billed by its owners as a Fort Knox-like bunker that will protect the very infrastructure of the companies fueling the electronic economy of the United States .
Unfortunately for Equinix , the San Francisco Chronicle plastered the top-secret location of the facility on its front page Tuesday morning .
But even if the unmarked shelter is no longer such a secret , the sprawling compound -- chock-full of fancy security devices including geometric hand-scanners and automated mantraps -- does appear capable of protecting the computers housed inside from physical attack .
But is the Internet under threat of such assault ?
Former National Security Advisor Mike McConnell sure thinks so .
" Look at the World Trade Center bombing , " he said . "
The purpose of that attack was to collapse Wall Street .
If I 'm the blind sheik , I say , ' Well , that did n't work .
accused in the attack
' "
Going after the bank is no longer a worthwhile strategy , he said .
Now you go after the bank 's computers .
" If you 're measuring e-commerce in billions and trillions , " he said , " what Equinix has provided here , in my view , is an absolute must . "
Benchmark Capital analyst Andy Rachleff , whose company helped to pony up a good chunk of the $ 80 million secured for second-round financing , says Equinix has hopped in front of a security trend in e-business .
" This is monstrous , " he said . "
If you 're going to put your business on the Internet , you 're going to put your servers in a facility like this . "
The building , a renovated version of a former IBM facility , was rebuilt by Bechtel Corporation , the brawn behind the Hong Kong International Airport and Boston 's Ted Williams Tunnel .
Bechtel has entered into a $ 1.2 billion contract to build 26 more of these hosting facilities .
The company has already built two on the East Coast -- in Virginia and New Jersey .
Jeff Thompson , a software developer for operating systems security platforms provider Argus Systems , says sinking a bunch of capital into this kind of facility is crazy .


Where Is WhoAmI.com ?

WhoAmI.com is having an identity crisis .
In another domain hijacking case , Solid Oak Software lost control over its domain Saturday -- and still had n't gotten it back Wednesday after several days of interaction with registrar Network Solutions .
Solid Oak runs a personal profiling service at whomami.com for customers of its Cybersitter Web filtering software .
As of Wednesday the domain still directed Web visitors to Solid Oak 's content , but the new owner could redirect the traffic at any time by changing the server associated with the address .
" Someone in Serbia was able to get into Network Solutions , use my name as administrative contact , and change all the registration information for the whoami.com domain , " said Brian Milburn , president of Solid Oak .
The switch was initiated Saturday , when Solid Oak received an automated message from Network Solutions .
The message said the transfer of whoami.com had been approved .
Arriving to work Monday , Solid Oak staff found the email and checked the whois database .
They discovered whoami.com in the hands of " someone in Serbia , " Milburn said .
The problem was , Solid Oak never got the chance to disapprove the transfer , Milburn said .
Normally Network Solutions sends form email to administrative and technical contacts listed for a domain asking for formal approval of a transfer request .
" We never received any of those forms from Network Solutions here .
What we got on Saturday was simply a notice that your request has been approved , " Milburn said .
The company combed its email logs to make sure no approval notice had been received .
Later Milburn discovered that his hosting service provider , listed as the technical contact for the domain listed , had received and even denied an approval request -- still to no avail .
Network Solutions has a substantial history of hijacking problems .
For example , four Internet names were temporarily taken hostage in January , including that of Web standards body the World Wide Web Consortium .
Victims think registrar Network Solutions ' answer to the problem -- get a more secure account -- are n't good enough .
Company spokeswoman Cheryl Regan confirmed that an unauthorized change was made to whoami.com .
" We have corrected the record , and the changes are now being propagated throughout the system , " she said .
But what about the underlying problem allowing such hijackings to occur ?


Tech Earnings Extravaganza

America Online beat Wall Street 's third-quarter earnings estimates Tuesday as the world 's largest Internet service provider showed strong growth in e-commerce and advertising revenue and added 1.7 million new members .
For the three months ended March 31 , the Dulles , Virginia-based company reported net income of $ 271 million , or 11 cents per diluted share , up from $ 104 million , or 4 cents per diluted share for the same period a year-ago .
AOL , poised to become one of the world 's leading media companies with its acquisition of Time Warner , beat estimates by 2 cents .
The analysts ' consensus expected AOL to post earnings of 9 cents per share , according to First Call/Thomson Financial .
" There 's no question that this quarter marked a watershed in this company 's history , " America Online Chairman Steve Case said , referring to the strong third-quarter results and pending merger with Time Warner .
Revenue rose to $ 1.8 billion , up 47 percent , with the benchmark advertising , commerce and other revenue more than doubling to $ 557 million compared to last year 's fiscal third quarter , the company said .
Despite the looming threat of rivals offering free Internet service , Case said AOL service is ahead of its expected pace in new subscribers this year , adding 1.7 million new members worldwide to close out the quarter with 22.2 million subscribers .


Surfin ' Down I-95

As if they did n't already have enough to distract them , drivers will soon be able to retrieve information from their PalmPilots using hands-free technology .
The new gizmo -- with the catchy name of Communiport Mobile Productivity Center -- will be developed jointly by Palm , which makes the popular handheld organizer , and Delphi Automotive Systems , the world 's largest auto supplier .
Delphi said the cradle device will fit in a cupholder and plug into a standard 12-volt power source , such as a cigarette lighter .
It is expected to be available by the fourth quarter of this year .
Communiport will be coordinated to let Palm.Net customers retrieve news , weather , sports , financial info , and email , not to mention giving them Internet access .
Which are all fine things to be messing around with when you 're supposed to be driving .
- - -
Robbing Peter to pay Paul : On the theory that you need to have money in order to spend it , an e-commerce company is making it easier for you to get it -- provided , of course , that your credit rating is sound .
The new system , developed by a Philadelphia outfit called ecount , allows individuals to transfer cash from their credit card to a special account that ecount provides without charge .
That way , you can spend money from that account securely -- or even send it to other individuals -- without divulging sensitive credit card information .
This is not virtual cash , since any website that accepts Visa or Mastercard will honor it .
The system , also called ecount , is being described by the company as the first Web account of its kind .
- - -
Seeking broad license : The licensing guidelines for non-interactive radio broadcasts are more favorable than those governing broadcasts which allow for some listener influence over the programming .
Online music companies are trying to change that , lobbying the Copyright Office to relax its limitations on interactive radio webcasting .
The move is opposed by the recording industry , which fears that liberalization will facilitate pirating and cut into its ability to collect royalties .
The broadcasters say that because listeners do n't know in advance what 's going to be played , piracy is not a factor .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Netscape 6 : A Work in Progress

The new Cookie Manager feature is little more than a browser thats enables you to preview the information in each cookie before deciding if you want to delete it , and it allows you to block cookies from certain domains .
Unfortunately , it would not save my membership information for the AnandTech Forums , so Netscape 's cookies are crumbling a little .
There 's also a Password Manager , which can save and encrypt your passwords to consumer sites so you do n't have to re-enter them .
At this point , all you can do is delete passwords , you can n't edit or change them .
AOL 's Instant Messenger is integrated into the browser , but it did not detect the installation of AIM on my system , so I had to recreate my buddy list .
AIM
When it 's finally working properly the integration of AIM with Netscape Mail will be a nifty feature .
If an AIM user who is online sends you a letter , you have the option of sending an instant message instead of writing an email back .
The Netscape Mail client is smarter than AIM in this release in that it will import Eudora , Outlook and Outlook Express address books , saved mail , and other settings .
The browser , email client , and AIM interfaces all look very primitive compared to the previous browser and are in dire need of a makeover .
Netscape plans to introduce skins shortly , customizable interfaces for the browser .
Although no skins are out yet , the Client Customization Kit should provide a lot of ways to change the look of the browser .
For international users , Netscape 6 has a built-in translation engine that interprets pages to a user 's language of choice .
Translation is actually performed by translation site Teletranslator , which takes a while to process .
The translation of the German site of Guano Apes , was slow , but it only missed a few words .
Germany 's answer to Korn
The engine smartly detected the German language , and defaulted to an English translation .
Similarly , Teletranslator was successful in translating a Japanese site .
For Netscape 6 , the key phrase is proceed with caution -- only visit Java-rich sites if you 're prepared to submit error reports and restart your browser frequently , and do n't uninstall Navigator 4.72 just yet .
Netscape 6 will import your Navigator 4.72 settings and bookmarks , and it will n't mess with Navigator or IE 5 installations .
While there 's no uninstall program , you can remove Netscape 6 just by deleting its folder .




MS Servers Leave Back Door Open

Microsoft acknowledged its engineers included a secret password in some of its Internet software that could be used to gain access to websites globally , the Wall Street Journal said Friday .
The article said the manager of Microsoft 's security-response center Steve Lipner " acknowledged the online-security risk " and said such a backdoor password is against the company 's policy .
The employees had not yet been identified .
There have been no reports that the alleged security flaw has been exploited , the article said .
The computer code , part of which was the comment that Netscape rivals " are weenies , " was discovered by two security experts .
Lipner said in the article that the software giant will warn the largest website providers in the U.S. directly about the flaw .
A Microsoft spokesman was not immediately available for comment .




Crypto-Convict Will n't Recant

Before Jim Bell went to prison , he suspected that most government officials were corrupt .
Three years behind bars later , the self-proclaimed Internet anarchist is sure of it .
After Bell , a cypherpunk who the United States government dubbed a techno-terrorist , is released Friday at 10 a.m. PDT , he plans to exact revenge on the system that imprisoned him .
" If they continue to work for the government , they deserve it .
My suggestion to these people is to quit now and hope for mercy , " the 41-year-old Washington state native said in a telephone interview this week from the medium-security federal penitentiary in Phoenix .
Bell pleaded guilty to tax evasion in 1997 .
The retribution he has in mind ?
Well , it 's decidedly not simple thuggery or wild-eyed ranting .
Before he was arrested , the MIT graduate even gave his scheme a catchy title : " Assassination Politics . "
It 's an unholy mix of encryption , anonymity , and digital cash to bring about the ultimate annihilation of all forms of government .
The system , which Bell spent years talking up online , uses digital cash and anonymity to predict and confirm assassinations .
Darkly brooding during his stints in solitary confinement , Bell has honed his idea to a knife-sharp edge , and seems to have shed any remaining scruples in the process .
" I once believed it 's too bad that there are a lot of people who work for government who are hard-working and honest people who will get hit and it 's a shame , " he says . "
by Assassination Politics
Well , I do n't believe that any more .
They are all either crooks or they tolerate crooks or they are aware of crooks among their numbers . "
That kind of fervid rhetoric comes close to crossing the line , says one former prosecutor . "
It 's an oblique threat , " says Mark Rasch , now a lawyer at Science Applications International Corporation . "
Depending on how immediate the threat is or how immediate the incitement is , it could violate federal law . "
And Assassination Politics ?
If Bell tries to set it up , will he end up back in Club Fed ? "
Now you 're getting closer to the line that says , ' I will pay you to kill a federal agent .
' Even though it 's indirect , it has the same effect , " Rasch says .
U.S. law punishes " any threat to injure the person of another " with a five-year prison sentence .
Robb London , the assistant United States Attorney for the Western District of Washington , did not immediately return phone calls .




Ericsson Wins Top Pirelli Prize

MILAN , Italy -- Ericsson Medialab of Sweden won Pirelli 's annual INTERNETional Award for multimedia works with Warriors of the Net , a movie about how the Internet works .
Ericsson was awarded the US$ 15,000 first prize for " their highly successful effort in explaining the functioning of the Internet by utilizing state-of-the-art multimedia tools : high-level screenplay , graphics , and original subject have made this work one of the most powerful examples of contemporary digital art , " according to Pirelli officials .
The movie shows a dark technological underworld where an information packet is launched by a personal mail-room and travels along the highways of a LAN .
On its way to the Net , the packet encounters routers , router switches , and firewalls .
" We started out by going through the basics about TCP/IP and how it works , " said Tomas Stephanson of Ericsson . "
I tried to get a grip on the elementary parts and how to visualize them in an effective manner . "
Martin Goldman of the United States won the second prize for Physics 2000 , a Web site illustrating an interactive journey through modern physics .
With lots of applets and animations , the site explores the secrets of the atomic world , and explains X-rays , microwave ovens , lasers , waves , and quantum mechanics .
Third prize went to Human Sexuality , an informative Web site on human sexuality , by Gisele Grinevicius Garbe of Brazil .
Another U.S. work -- Atomic Archive -- by A.J. Software & Multimedia won the prize for the CD-ROM section .
The CD-ROM explores the complex history surrounding the invention of the atomic bomb .
Instructions for submitting multimedia works such as movies , Websites , hypertexts , animations , sounds , for next year 's awards can be found on the PirelliAward .
The final deadline is September 30 , 2000 .




Huge Kid Porn Ring Busted

Editor 's note : This story was updated on April 18 , after its original publication on April 14 .
Underneath a monstrous heap of electronic kiddie porn , federal prosecutors have uncovered a suburban Texas couple , three foreign webmasters , and thousands of customers worldwide who left behind a trail of credit card charges totaling $ 1 million .
Federal prosecutors , who watched with glee as a grand jury handed down an 87-count indictment against the peddlers Thursday , say they 've never had such a big case .
U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas Paul Coggins said the case is a major step forward in a high-stakes fight against the people who sexually abuse children and sell images of the abuse on the Web .
Catching the webmaster , he said , makes finding their victims a real possibility .
" Where these webmasters are establishing sites could well be where these scenes of sexual abuse take place , " Coggins said .
Prosecutors say the children in this case are 4-12 years old . "
These kids are being scarred for life somewhere , someone needs to be prosecuting . "
and
The indictment charges Fort Worth 's Thomas and Janice Reedy with operating a commercial kid porn ring from their home .
According to the Texas Secretary of State , the Reedys incorporated their company , called Landslide , Inc. , on Feb. 13 , 1997 .
Prosecutors say Landslide acted as the " gatekeeper " between one Russian and two Indonesian webmasters who supplied customers with pornographic images of children in exchange for US$ 29.95 per site .
Landslide supplied the password-protected access to the sites -- including childrenforcedtoporn.com , childrape.com , and childrenofgod.com -- and handled the credit card transactions .
Those charges left behind a handy trail of evidence for prosecutors , who say the Reedys made $ 1,111,266 in less than a year .
They kept a third of the profits and sent the rest to the foreign webmasters .
People close to the case said the size of the Reedys ' business was enormous .
" The extent of the kiddie porn business , the scope of the customers , they are spread across the states and across the globe , shocked me , " Coggins said .
and the fact that
Lead prosecutor Terri Moore agreed , calling the scope of the operation " absolutely frightening . "
" I 'm a seasoned prosecutor and I was appalled , I was floored , " she said .
Parry Aftab , director of anti-child pornography group Cyberangels , called Landslide a major commercial scheme , setting it apart from most child pornography on the Internet , which is not commercial .
" This is a very , very important case , " she said . "
For child pornography , this is as important as the World Trade Center bombing . "
Without commenting specifically on Landslide , Aftab said commercial rings are extremely dangerous and even deadly for the children who are targeted . "
They are particularly heinous , " she said . "
Many of them kill the children after they abuse them .
They use foreign children , from Eastern Europe and South America .
It is the kind of world you can n't imagine . "
The Reedys , who are being held in federal prison until a detention hearing next week , have been forced to take down their alleged kid porn , and most of the sites they once operated are now out of service .
But they 're still using the landslide.com site to assert their innocence .
" We have committed no illegal act , and are confident to be found innocent of any such charges , " the site reads .




From iBash to iBusted

Last October , Michael Fenne , founder and former chairman of Pixelon.com , presided over the most extravagant Net start-up bash in the short , self-indulgent history of decadent dot-com shindigs .
For the Las Vegas event , dubbed iBash ' 99 , Fenne rented out the MGM Grand ; hired a slew of top-drawer recording artists including Kiss , The Dixie Chicks , Sugar Ray , and Brian Setzer ; and , to cap it off , paid top-dollar for a reunion performance by The Who .
All of the performances were broadcast over the Net , ostensibly to showcase Pixelon 's Web video technology .
The total price tag : $ 12 million , a hefty chunk of the $ 35 million-worth of venture capital financing Fenne had rounded up for Pixelon .
Today , Michael Fenne is sitting in a jail cell in Wise County , Virginia .
There he 's known by his real name , David Stanley .
Until Wednesday , he also was known as one of Virginia 's most-wanted fugitives , a bogus stockbroker who skipped bail in the mid-1990s after he was convicted of swindling clients out of more than $ 1 million .
Stanley turned himself in Wednesday after Virginia police , alerted by a tipster , called Stanley 's San Bernardino , California , home to tell him the jig was up , authorities said Friday .
" We called him and said , ' Hey , we know you 're there , ' on April 11th , and he turned himself in the next night , " said Capt. Terry Bowes , assistant director of the Virginia State Police Bureau of Investigation .
Pixelon employees were shocked by the news .
" It all happened really quickly , " a spokeswoman said . "
There was really no warning . "
Fenne/Stanley had been replaced as Pixelon 's chairman last winter by disgruntled venture capitalists on the company 's board .
Pixelon 's corporate officers and board of directors were in an emergency meeting Friday and could not immediately be reached for comment .




Who 's Richer , Larry or Bill ?

A couple of years back , a book with the following title hit the bestseller 's list : The Difference Between God and Larry Ellison* .
* God Does n't Think He 's Larry Ellison
Tuesday , perhaps , or maybe Wednesday , it may be time to offer up a second descriptive question/answer string for Ellison , bad-boy billionaire chairman and CEO of database king Oracle : The Difference Between Bill Gates and Larry Ellison* .
* Larry Ellison Has More Money
Yup , that 's right .
Larry Ellison , the man who lands his private jet after-hours in San Jose and sues when the city tries to stop him , is poised to take the title of world 's richest man from his hated arch-rival in Redmond .
At the close of the market Monday , Ellison 's 690 million Oracle shares were worth $ 51.6 billion -- a mere $ 4.6 billion less than Gates ' $ 56.2 billion , 741 million-share , Microsoftian fortune .
both men have other assets , but we 're ignoring those for the sake of over-simplification
While $ 4.6 billion may seem like a hefty sum to mere mortals , consider this : A surge in Oracle 's shares on Monday piled nearly $ 8 billion onto Ellison 's mountain of wealth .
Bill Gates ' booty , by contrast , has dwindled by some $ 30 billion in the last three weeks , thanks in no small part to the antitrust assault Ellison helped orchestrate .
Gates declined comment on his shifting fortunes , and Ellison could not be reached .
If Larry does topple Bill , however , the world can expect a lot more old-fashioned , alpha-male , rich-guy behavior from its top financial dog .
While pasty-faced Bill tinkers with code , works 80-hour weeks -- and figures out a way to guide his company through the antitrust mess -- exquisitely tailored , libidinous Larry consummates email affairs , flits about the world on yachting adventures , and lands his $ 38 million private jet wherever and whenever he feels like it , thank you very much .
" There 's a side to him that -- well , let 's just say I understand why he 's been married three times , " said Elizabeth Ferrarini , a marketing consultant who claims to have had a personal relationship with Ellison .
" His attitude is , ' I 'll do what I want to do , and I do n't give a s**t about you .
I can buy anything and do anything -- I can s**t on the floor and hire someone to clean it up .
' "
Added David Vossbrink , spokesman for San Jose Mayor Ron Gonzales : " I know that Larry Ellison has a unique view of the rules and regulations at the airport , but nothing is quite as simple as it looks from the vantage of 30,000 feet , or $ 51 billion . "
But boy , do Oracle shareholders love him .
Since last May , Oracle 's stock has jumped 670 percent .




Investors ' IRS Bill Sharp as Tax

NEW YORK -- Goodbye wealth effect , hello tax collector .
At least that 's how it must seem to some investors whose active trading and stock profits left them flush with cash last year and with a big tax bill this year .
" People are shocked when they see the tax rate , " said James Weikart , head of Weikart Tax Associates .
Taxes on gains from securities held more than a year total no more than 20 percent .
But active investing , in which people eagerly locked in profits made over short periods of time , can generate gains on which the tax bill rises to 39.6 percent .
" Given the number of people who became very active traders in 1999 and the rapid appreciation of so many technology and Internet stocks , a lot of individual investors were shocked at the bill that has come due this week , " said James Capozzola , senior director of research at Individual Investor magazine and IndividualInvestor.com .
" I 've had tons of experience with people being overwhelmed with their capital gains , " said David Tysk , senior financial advisor at American Express in Minneapolis .
Tysk said those profits were generated not so much by day trading in the stock market , but by mutual funds " which last year kicked out an enormous amount of capital gains . "
Tysk said his clients ' tax liability for capital gains generated by mutual funds were higher in 1998 than in 1997 and higher in 1999 than in 1998 .
" People are finding that their quarterly estimates of taxes owed were n't big enough ; and if they were n't doing them at all , they have a big tax bill , " Tysk said .
The reactions , he said , are " shock . Panic .
And then , ' What do we do to come up with some money ?
' "
For many clients , the only way to raise enough money to pay the tax bill is to sell something , Tysk said .
But it 's not always that simple .
" In the last couple of weeks , I 've seen three or four people who 've been under tremendous stress because they owe taxes on money they made , but no longer have , because the market has gone down , " Weikart said . "
They have n't been under pressure to pay their taxes until now . "
But while some individual investors have had to sell stock holdings to pay capital gains taxes , equity market analysts said that selling had played little or no role in the stock market 's recent retreat .
" The pressure on the stock market commenced with Microsoft 's problems , increased margin calls throughout the market , and mounting worries about how many interest rate hikes lie ahead , " said Alan Ackerman , executive vice president at Fahnstock & Co. Inc. "
The confluence of those elements took a big bite out of optimism and caused the market to turn tail . "




The Icebergs Breaketh

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- In 1956 , you had to be aboard the U.S.S. Glacier , then the U.S. Navy 's most powerful icebreaker , to see the massive hulk of an Antarctic iceberg .
In 2000 , you can keep tabs on one simply by checking out the latest satellite images on your computer .
In the past few weeks , four massive icebergs , including one that is among the biggest ever , have broken free in Antarctica . "
It 's a natural occurrence but on this scale it 's unusual , " says Dr. Dean Peterson , science strategy manager at the New Zealand Antarctic Institute .
The massive B15 iceberg , and the also-large B16 , B17 , and B18 , all are calved from the Ross Ice Shelf , formed by ice streams flowing off the Antarctic ice sheet .
The naming of icebergs is eminently practical : B15 is the 15th iceberg to be tracked from the " B " quadrant of Antarctica , which is 90 degrees west to 180 degrees .
Matthew Lazzara , a meteorologist at the University of Wisconsin 's Antarctic Meteorology Research Center , has been one of the iceberg 's monitors .
He tracks icebergs from pictures taken by polar orbiting satellites operated by the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program .
" When the satellite flies over McMurdo , the data 's available , " he said . "
I can get access to it within minutes of it flying over . "
He also mixes in pictures from geo-stationary satellites , which observe " the full disk " of Earth . "
We combine all of the satellites to make a composite , mosaic image over the Antarctic and Southern Ocean .
It is a specialty of the AMRC . "
Lazzara receives about 10 to 12 pictures every day , posting the best to the AMRC website . "
That was wonderful , to be able to get them out to the world , " he said .
But in fact , it 's not just tracking the icebergs that 's important . "
We do n't really care where it goes , unless it happens to block up a base , " says Dr. Harry Keys , a scientist at New Zealand 's Department of Conservation .
More crucially , the movement of the icebergs act as a guide to the tides and currents around Antarctica , which still are not well understood .
" In terms of global climate change , they are one of the drivers for moving heat around , " Keys said .
currents




Winning at the Inventing Game

Bob Olodort is the brains behind the amazing folding keyboard for Palm handhelds .
The full-size Palm Foldable keyboard , which magically folds up into a neat portable package , looks set to be a smash .
But for years Olodort struggled as an independent inventor .
In an interview with Wired News , Olodort describes how he got started in the inventing game .
He discusses how the keyboard allowed him to launch his own design company , Think Outside , and the amazing risk he took with an earlier model .
And Olodort hints at the work he is doing on much smaller designs for cell phones and the next generation of wireless handheld computers .
Wired News : Where did you get the idea for the folding keyboard ?
Bob Olodort : It was the realization six or seven years ago that computers would become commodities .
That they would be very small , very powerful and very low-cost .
But as a touch typist I realized the input technology would be sorely lacking .
So I started looking into all kinds of input technology .
I rejected pen-recognition and I rejected voice-recognition .
...
So I came back to the keyboard and I started working on all kinds of designs .
I realized it had to be very small and open up to full size .
So I started looking at things with no moving parts : virtual keyboards with light beams that look at your fingertips and other types of digitizers that could tell pressure .
None of these worked well because they all required new learning or unnatural movements .
WN : How much time did you spend on these early prototypes ?
Olodort : Years .
I worked on a number of things at once .
But I would say four years .
WN : And you built these things ?
Olodort : Yeah .
Some were thought projects .
Some were breadboard models .
Some were working electrical models .
WN : How many do you think you built ?
Olodort : Say 10 .
I looked at chordal keyboards that would be very small and had 10 keys or five keys that were like chords , like when you play the piano .
WN : Like a stenographers keyboard ?
Olodort : Kind of .
Again , they 're small but they require learning .
I rejected that .
The last thing I was hopeful about but I rejected was thin membrane keyboards which could be rolled up or folded up .
WN : With bubble-type keys ?
Olodort : Yeah .
There are a couple out there but they 're awful .
It 's like typing on your microwave oven .
You can n't type quickly .
WN : So you spent four years and you finally came back to this -- the traditional keyboard ?
Olodort : Yeah .
I finally came up with a design .
It was purely mechanical and it had 3 millimeter movement , just like the current design , and it was 100 percent full-size .
But it folded up on scissors linkages .
It was really magical .
Like an accordion , you pull it open and you close it .
WN : How many links did it have ?
Olodort : Hundreds .
I forget .
Maybe 600 .
WN : How big a package did it fold into ?
Olodort : Bigger than we have now .
The same footprint but maybe two or three times as thick .
The tricky part is that it has the same layout as a keyboard , which has staggered keys and some keys are bigger than others .
So it took a lot of cleverness to figure out .
And I hand-made it .
I had several schemes , but basically it measured resistance to establish which key is being pushed .




Balkan War in Domain Attacks ?

Domain-name hijackers are taking over hundreds of websites in a campaign that may be rooted in tensions among Balkan states , site owners and monitors say .
Individuals listing Serbian and Albanian postal addresses in recent weeks have exploited a weakness in registrar Network Solutions and appropriated names registered through the company , officials there said .
Domain takeovers enable the hijacker to control the server associated with a domain name , such as Viagra.com or Indianajones.com .
Hijackers can then reassign the domain name to another Web server , or to no server at all , scuttling all traffic intended to go to the site .
This latest round of mass hijackings could be random hacking or part of a fledgling Balkan info-war , but since online identities can be easily spoofed , it 's hard to know for sure .
Network Solutions spokeswoman Cheryl Regan confirmed that many domains had recently been " redirected " to a registrant listing an Albanian address , but refused to pinpoint the exact number of affected domains beyond " considerably less than 2,000 . "
WebDNS , a domain-name system-monitoring service based in England , reported Thursday that at least 50 domain names have been attacked since April 9 , including Adidas.com , Jamesbond.com , Mafia.com , France.com , Italy.com , Spain.com , Slovenia.com , Croatia.com , Sarajevo.com , Kosova.com , Washington.com , and Bosnia.com .
" We have been in contact with owners of some of the domain names affected and have found the companies were either not aware of the situation or had been alerted by the fact services were failing , " said WebDNS founder Alex Jeffreys . "
Many had been in touch with Network Solutions and were in the process of having the domain re-transferred . "
Among the victimized sites were those run by pro-democracy groups and other Web publications maintained by Serbian political opponents , such as Montenegro.com and Bosnia.com , both of which have since been returned to their owners .
Hijackers have targeted Internet domain names belonging to Montenegran pro-democracy activists and to news and information sites , said Montenegro.com owner Alex Obradovic , who runs Montenegro.com and related domains from Los Angeles to cover developments in Montenegro .
Obradovic is convinced the hijacking is the work of hackers conducting an electronic attack on Montenegro , Serbia 's smaller sister republic in the Yugoslav federation .
Using electronic tracing tools , he determined that the Internet service hosting the hijackers is based in the Serbian capital of Belgrade .
He says the possibility that hackers were dialing into the service 's account from outside Serbia is " unlikely . "
Network Solutions was able to return the domains to Obradovic before any changes were made , he said .
But other Balkan-related domains , including Slovenia.com and Croatia.com have been hijacked for weeks and remain so , he said .
Late Friday , the Slovenia.com domain carried the message : " KOSOVO IS SERBIA Site hacked BYGreb-a-Thor and ScsiMaster .
...
Be happy if we hacked your site because we hack ONLY the best sites on the Internet ! "
Obradovic suspects the hijackers are trying to undermine the spread of information in Montenegro as part of a propaganda war .
Network Solutions ' Regan would not comment on the possible info-war motive , nor confirm the likely geographical origins of the hijacking campaign . "
We can not address specifics of our active investigation of this domain-name attack , " she said .
Regan said many of the hijacked domains had since been returned to their original owners .
But a registry search early Friday showed that at least 50 domains still listed the hijackers ' phony contact name , justdoit@megapost.net .




Going Out of Dot Commission ?

PALO ALTO , California -- No company has an easy time swallowing a decline of 50 percent or more in its stock price , but when a company has no profits , limited cash , and uses its shares as a virtual currency to pay employees and fund expansion , such a drop can be crippling .
That was the situation facing many online retailers even before the overall market slumped last week .
Now , with their already depressed stock prices taking another beating , the long-expected shakeout seems to be imminent .
" They have to figure out a new way to fund their growth , " says Michael Murphy , president of Murphy Investment Management in Half Moon Bay , California . "
Most of these guys are n't profitable and the game 's over when you run out of cash . "
Much has been made of the distinction between leaders in the online retail sector , such as Amazon.com , and all the would-be Amazons that are not nearly so well established , or so well-funded .
But in many ways , all of these e-tailers , big and small , have been thrust into crisis mode .
Not a single publicly traded e-tailing company is profitable , and none of them appear to have enough cash to last until that unspecified time in the future when they will start to make money , Murphy said .
Online grocer Webvan , for instance , is one of the best-funded among them , with an enviable $ 540 million in cash .
But Webvan expects that money to last only through the end of the year , and says its operating losses will last somewhat longer .
If nine months-worth of cash on hand was once regarded as a healthy reserve , it no longer looks like that much , now that markets have soured on the e-tail sector and IPOs and secondary offerings are often being canceled .
As investors lose faith in e-tail businesses , it not only becomes harder for these companies to raise more money , but it poses the added challenge of how they can retain employees who are paid in large part with stock options .
" Obviously , the stock price decline is a concern , " says Mitch Hill , chief financial officer of the online superstore Buy.com .
The company , whose stock has lost more than half its value since its initial public offering two months ago , has seen some staff turnover in recent months , Hill says .




Hey , Babe , Want To Call ...
Chad ?

Editor 's note : This story was modified on April 28 to clarify the identities of the presidents of Alchemy Communications and Babenet .
Tore Loding wishes he never heard of adultbuffet.com .
That 's because a few weeks after a romp one night through that site 's adult offerings , the 24-year-old San Francisco State University journalism student got a $ 357 phone bill that made him consider swearing off pornographic websites .
Like an increasing number of scammed surfers , Loding , by clicking through an agreement attached to a movie he wanted to download , inadvertently took with it a piece of software that reset his modem and dialed a number in Chad , a country in central Africa .
The program , dirtymovies.exe , came with an agreement , which Loding clicked through without reading . "
I do n't know if I was drunk or whatever , I thought it was just some sort of privacy agreement , " he said .
Drunk or not , he 's still responsible for the charges , attributed to two mysterious 31-minute calls to Chad .
AT&T spokeswoman Lee Ann Kuster said the company has received a significant number of complaints about these kinds of charges , " enough to get our attention and put it on our radar screen , " she said .
AT&T even issued a customer warning last week about it .
But while the company feels its customers ' pain , it still wants to get paid .
" The bottom line is that customers are responsible for the calls made from their home .
The charges are sustained , " she said .
But $ 357 ?
" Why does an adult movie have to be downloaded from Chad ? "
Loding wants to know . "
It does n't make sense to me at all .
I think maybe it 's some deal with the phone company . "
He might be right .
The desolate , landlocked country , which has one of the lowest per capita incomes in the world , has a very primitive telecommunications system .
And it does n't make a lot of money from it .
So striking a deal with a U.S.-based Internet company , adult in nature or not , may not seem like such a bad idea .
A spokesman at the Embassy for the Republic of Chad in Washington said the country 's government had never heard of these telephone calls , and offered no further comment .
In fact , it was difficult to find out anything from anyone who might be involved or responsible .
A spokesman from Adultbuffet.com who would only identify himself as " Brad " said his company was not responsible for the charges Loding received , because the link he clicked on was owned by another site .
Adultbuffet , he said , is simply a collection of other adult sites .
Adultbuffet is registered to All World Creations , a company that filed for a license in Atlanta as a book dealer .
According to the county business office , the company is not operating with a license in Atlanta , and neither All World Creations nor Adultbuffet have filed papers with the Georgia Secretary of State .
On Wednesday , the page on the site that contains the movie Loding downloaded was registered to Abovenet , a San Jose , California-based bandwidth provider that said it provided services to Nonstopnet , a Walnut Creek , California , company .
Nonstopnet spokeswoman Johnette Stubbs said her company had nothing to do with Adultbuffet.com , and shifted the blame to Skyhosting.com , the company she says really hosts Adultbuffet.com . "
We have nothing to do with their site at all , " she said .
Skyhosting.com appears to be closely affiliated with Nonstopnet , according to information posted on its own website and filed with Network Solutions .
Minutes after denying a relationship , Stubbs called back to say she had just spoken with Skyhosting and " they are no longer hosting Adultbuffet . "
Lynn Macias , another Nonstopnet spokeswoman , said when the company learned of Skyhosting 's affiliation with Adultbuffet , it was dropped . "
I think that 's unbelievable that they were running that , " she said . "
We had no idea they were running that little scam , that 's not within our business model . "
By Thursday afternoon , the site had been picked up by Hitter Communications , an ISP in Hernando , Florida .
But a call to Andrew Cook , the registered contact at Hitter , revealed that he was no longer with the company .
Company officials said they would act immediately to discharge the site from their control .
Now the only company left that will admit to hosting the adult smorgasbord known as Adultbuffet is Flying Crocodile , a Seattle company that hosts 60,000 adult sites .




MS to Execs : ' We Want You '

SEATTLE -- Microsoft Corp. said Monday it is offering fatter stock option packages , more vacation time , and loftier titles to top executives as the software giant moves to staunch the flow of talent from its offices to startup companies .
Upping the ante against young Internet and technology firms that are luring programmers and managers with lucrative stock deals , Microsoft has sweetened its own stock option packages , said company spokeswoman Kimberely Kuresman .
While Kuresman declined to comment on the details of such packages , she said a story in Monday 's Wall Street Journal accurately portrayed the new rewards system .
A handful of high-level executives had been offered the chance to buy as many as 200,000 shares of Microsoft stock , and some options packages were at least five times bigger than normal , the newspaper said .
" Microsoft is committed to being competitive in offering packages that retain the best talent , " Kuresman said . "
Microsoft is constantly looking at ways to be competitive in the industry . "
Microsoft has been hit in recent months by several high-level departures , including its chief financial officer , who joined a Canadian fiber-optics company , and several executives from its Internet division , who started an investment firm to boost wireless technology .
In further moves to show its appreciation , Microsoft also recently promoted several dozen employees , bestowing on them the titles of vice-president or " distinguished engineer " -- a new title aimed at honoring technical wizards who do n't aspire to management jobs .
" It was created to recognize Microsoft 's top technical leaders ... who have made great contributions to Microsoft technology and who will continue to do so in the future , " Kuresman said .
The promotions occurred over the past few months , with several coming at the end of March , when Microsoft announced a reorganization to focus more on the Internet , Kuresman said .
Other perks include more vacation time to make it easier for executives to balance their work loads with family life , she said , adding that Microsoft has long offered things like discounts to Seattle-area events and attractions , and outings for children of employees .
" They understand that work is n't everthing for people , " she said . "
They 're also looking at adding to the work-life balance programs they offer employees . "
Shares in Microsoft rose 11/16 to 74-13/16 in active trading mid-afternoon on the Nasdaq .
MSFT
The company 's stock , which flew skyward in the 1990s and transformed thousands of employees into millionaires , has fallen from a year high of nearly 120 in February , battered by antitrust woes and recent bearish market sentiment .




The Cosmos Is Coming

Researchers at Microsoft are working on an ambitious Internet database that will make the data from massive surveys of the cosmos available to anyone with a Web browser .
The project is the first in a series of initiatives to bring to the public " virtual telescopes " that scientists are saying will herald perhaps the greatest revolution in the history of astronomy .
" It will totally change the way we do astronomy today , " said Alex Szalay , an astronomy professor at Johns Hopkins University .
When it comes online in six months to a year , Microsofts SkyServer will be the astronomical equivalent of the company 's popular TerraServer , which catalogs aerial images of the Earth and is one of the biggest databases on the Internet .
In the same way users of the TerraServer choose a region of the planet and drill down for pictures of the ground at ever greater resolution , users of the SkyServer will be able choose a region of the sky and probe deeper and deeper into space .
The data will come from several ongoing sky surveys , including the Sloan Digital Sky Survey , an automated survey of the cosmos that plans to catalog 200 million celestial objects over the next several years .
Some of these astronomy databases will be massive .
The Sloan survey is expected to generate 40 terabytes of data .
The Library of Congress , by contrast , is about 2 terabytes .
Microsoft is building the SkyServer from off-the-shelf PCs and software .
A prototype is already up and running .
But unlike the TerraServer , which is essentially a collection of unprocessed pictures , the SkyServer data will be somewhat " cooked " -- analyzed and catalogued -- allowing members of the public to do science with the data .
" This changes the equation for astronomy , " said Jim Gray , a senior researcher at Microsoft Research who is heading up the SkyServer project . "
Anyone will be able to look through one of the worlds best telescopes . "
But the Microsoft project is just the tip of the iceberg .
In the next few years , astronomers are hoping to use the Internet and the vast amounts of astronomical data that is streaming in from surveys like the Sloan to create " virtual telescopes " accessible to anyone with a PC and Net connection .




DNA Testing Furor in Wee Waa

SYDNEY , Australia -- A 44-year-old local laborer has been charged in connection with the rape of a 91-year-old woman in a small town , following a DNA testing program for most of the town 's 600 men .
The New Year 's Eve 1998 sexual attack on the woman shocked tiny Wee Waa in northern New South Wales .
As a result , most of the town 's 1,900 residents supported the DNA testing program .
Many saw it as a way to catch a perpetrator many feared still walked unpunished in their midst , casting a Twin Peaks-like pall over local life .
On Monday afternoon , the man walked into Wee Waa police station , asking to speak with detectives .
He was later charged in the case , and was being held without bail .
Police would n't confirm whether he had contributed a DNA sample during the testing program , saying that would have violated the program 's confidentiality .
" We were hoping we 'd get a breakthrough of this nature , " said John Gillett , regional police superintendent . "
The assistance and community support we got helped a lot . "
While the latest developments led to sighs of relief , many worry the DNA testing program sets an ugly precedent for future investigations in which personal privacy is forfeited under community pressure .
While most of the town 's men willingly came forward to give samples , holdouts were scorned .
Over time , civil libertarians worry such testing programs could shift the focus of police work toward presuming potential suspects guilty until cleared , rather than innocent until implicated .
For his part , Gillett says any curbs on forensic DNA technology are something the legal system must decide .
" We 're cutting new ground here , " he said . "
All of these issues and procedures will be tested in the courts . "
This week 's developments took place just as the local testing program was nearing completion , with only a few principled opponents and those recently out of town still to be tested .
The samples are being held in a government laboratory in Sydney , which had only just begun comparisons of the samples with those taken from the crime scene .
Now that someone 's been charged in the case , Gillett said the testing program will be suspended .
He took pains to stress that all samples and records will eventually be destroyed and donors notified in writing .
David Sweeney , a local attorney who from the start refused to give a sample , said that the case presents large societal issues .
" We need to work in the coming years to see how DNA technology can work toward -- rather than against -- society 's goal of avoiding witch hunts , " he said . "
There are plenty of ways for people to assist in police investigations without actively becoming a part of them . "
To Brett Collins , spokesman for Sydney-based community legal watchdog Justice Action , the case has opened a Pandora 's Box , with ripple effects hard to control .
" Before , we had one person traumatized , now we have 600 people who have had their bodies invaded , " Collins said . "
And there 's still the question of how that genetic material will be handled . "
He believes largely compliant Wee Waa represented a controlled environment for demonstrating DNA technology as the Australian federal government mulls legislation establishing a nationwide DNA database .
By having DNA testing either smoke out a perpetrator through a confession , or link him via laboratory tests , the effectiveness of the technology could be demonstrated to lawmakers , Collins believes .
He believes the case represents the thin end of the wedge for the use of DNA in forensics and , later , huge identity databases that will progressively strip the global citizenry of any anonymity .
Wee Waa is a small , agricultural town bordering populous New South Wales ' border with the northern Australian state of Queensland .
Wee Waa is part of a rural police jurisdiction covering roughly 26,000 square miles , with a population of about 30,000 .




Net CEOs : ' Shallow and Greedy '

The head of a major Internet consulting firm predicts that many dot-com companies will soon be exposed for what they really are : hollow , half-baked schemes without much hope for long-term success .
George Colony , CEO of Forrester Research , recently concluded a lengthy series of interviews with executives about how they expect the Internet to change their businesses over the next 10 years .
About a fifth of the CEO 's hailed from Internet companies , and Colony based his conclusions largely on interviews with them .
His findings were not pretty .
" Many of the dot-com CEOs lacked depth , experience , and common business sense , " he wrote in a letter on Forrester 's discussion site . "
There was a fanatical focus on valuation -- getting public and liquid -- while value -- what the customer eventually gets -- was a back-seat discussion . "
Colony drew a sharp distinction between CEOs of Net startups and leaders of more established companies .
Most Net executives , he said , seemed committed only for the short-term , unfazed by their highly fluid work force , and fixated on cliched and simplistic business models .
He also was n't too impressed by many of their businesses .
" These companies are not built to withstand competition , they 're not built to deliver sustained value , and they 're not built to last , " he wrote , offering this year 's Super Bowl as an example of the lack of foresight .
Internet companies spent record sums on 30-second spots that in most cases proved to be " a phenomenal waste of money . "
Colony had kind words for a few high-profile dot com executives , like Priceline founder Jay Walker , Amazon.com 's Jeff Bezos , and eBay CEO Meg Whitman .
Those few executives who possess a long-term vision and are willing to marshall the sales forces and put up the investments to back them will end up controlling most of the market .
Weaker players , in the meantime , will be forced to drop out .
The future , Colony said , will be one with fewer IPOs , less advertising , massive consolidation , and more stable prices .
In the meantime , many of those in-your-face upstarts will find themselves cowed into the shadow by those slow-moving , profitable " old economy " companies they once derided .
So where will all those 20-something Net millionaires end up ?
Colony issued the following prediction :
" The dot-com generation will get squeezed by more skilled baby-boom managers and aggressive Generation Y newcomers .
Former dot-com managers will end up working for their elders and their juniors , " he said .




Pocket PCs Sound Off

NEW YORK -- Its 9 a.m. at Grand Central Station and up in the north balcony , Steve Ballmer is shouting to be heard over the din of commuters rushing around below .
Ballmer , CEO and president of Microsoft , certainly believes he has something to shout about -- hes introducing the new Pocket PC , the operating system for the next generation of Windows-based handheld devices .
" Grand Central Station is the most emblematic place in the world for the mobile professional , " yells Ballmer , well-known for the decibel level of his presentations .
Also known for not mincing words , Ballmer almost immediately launched into an acknowledgement of Microsofts failures with its PDA interface . "
Weve not had the kind of presence and success in this marketplace that we wish wed had , " he says . "
I regret the fact that were not farther ahead . "
Despite Microsofts past missteps , four handheld makers announced devices that run the new Pocket PC operating system , a revamped version of the OS formerly known as Windows CE .
Slated for a June release , Compaqs iPAQ H3650 emphasizes modularity with a variety of expansion packs and speed .
with a $ 499 street price
the processor runs at 206 MHz
The Compaq Aero 1550 was built for ultra-portability , with a weight of just 5.29 ounces and a total thickness of a half-inch .
$ 299
Casio went for variety , announcing four Pocket PC units for its Cassiopeia line , including the E-115 which is shipping now and includes 32 MB of RAM .
$ 599
Hewlett-Packards Jornada 545 and 548 focus on style , with a sleek look , detachable cover , and alloy casing .
$ 499
$ 599
Both are currently available .
Finally , the industrial-strength models from Symbol Technologies are rugged bar-code readers geared toward vertical markets .
In the landmark terminals main lobby , Microsoft employees in bright-yellow fleece vests gave demos of the new Pocket PCs to passersby .
Well , they tried to give demos , but most of the people dashing by the famous terminal clock did n't stop , perhaps attempting to avoid being any later for work .
Despite the public 's indifference to the event , the Microsofties spirit remained high .
" This is our demographic , the mobile professional , " said program manager Chad Whitney , who had been giving demos since 6:45 a.m.
Indeed , once the real morning crush was over , close to a dozen passersby gathered around Whitney and his fellow Pocket PCers .
But theyre not all the typical " mobile professionals , " Microsoft was trying to reach .
The onlookers included students , tourists , and the usual peculiar range of personalities youd expect at Grand Central at 11:00 on a weekday morning .
Ballmer and company spent a good portion of this mornings launch talking up the fun stuff you can do with Pocket PCs .
The presentation started out with a cartoon of the gregarious Ballmer grabbing a cab in New York .
Developed using ActiveSky technology and created by Atom Film , the cartoon is just one of about 25 pieces of video entertainment specifically created for the Pocket PC platform .
In fact , its the entertainment arena that many believe just might finally give Microsoft an edge over the industry-dominating Palm .
For example , you can read e-books on a Pocket PC using Microsofts new ClearType display technology , which quadruples text resolution on the screen .
And you can listen to books being read to you , thanks to Audible.coms integrated content .
Not surprisingly , Microsofts own Slate magazine will also be available in e-book format .
It was the e-book technology that sold Cliff Helsel -- currently a Palm user -- of WallStreetWise Software . "
Its a lot better than the last CE device I looked at , " he said , after checking out one of the units at the terminal . "
Palm has a ways to go to beat it . "
If youre not a reader or a short-movie buff , theres always music .
Both MP3 and Windows Media Player audio formats are supported on the Pocket PCs .
Gamers might enjoy the free Fun Pocket PC Expansion Pack , which includes a version of Pac-Man thats an exact duplicate of the popular 80s arcade game .
But Microsoft didnt forget the business uses for Pocket PC , including full compatibility with Outlook , page-fitting technology that lets Pocket Internet Explorer duplicate the look of Web pages as displayed on a PC screen , and partnerships with strictly business types like mySAP.com and TD Waterhouse .
Consultant Sunil Patel liked the e-book reader , but he was also intrigued by the business applications . "
Its got the features were looking for -- Outlook synchronization , maps &#91 ; Pocket Streets comes bundled with the devices&#93 ; , a color screen , " he said , adding that he planned to buy one immediately .
Quentin Solano , a jazz clarinetist , seemed tentative about the MP3 capabilities and worries over the need for music publishers to work out new ways to pay musicians .
But , he agreed that the technology is inevitable .
Pocket PCs and their ilk , he said " are the thing of the future .
Soon it will be like having a wristwatch . "




Parlez-Vous Online ?

Students who want to brush up on their Spanish verb tenses , patrons looking to impress the maitre d ' at a swanky French restaurant , and visitors to Germany who do n't want to sound like tourists can all get a little help on the Web .
But do n't expect to get that help immediately from the established language companies that have offered dictionaries , traveler 's phrase books , lesson plans , audio tapes , and even CD ROM language programs .
While most of the well-known language instruction firms said they are evaluating or already planning online offerings , there are currently a handful of new online-only players dominating the online language learning space .
These online-only sites are attempting to leverage the strengths of the Net , such as interactivity , constant availability , and audio , and text capabilities , to create comprehensive and immersive language learning programs .
Parlo aims to recreate that feeling of immersion into another country and culture -- as much as possible while parked in front of a computer .
It includes music , stories , and pictures from other countries , in addition to its vocabulary lists and listen-and-repeat features .
" It 's injecting some entertainment into the educational experience instead of making it a pain , " said co-founder Varun Bedi , who speaks five languages .
Beginner lessons at Parlo are free .
Students connect with other students and an instructor through chat rooms on the site .
The site currently offers English , Spanish , and French courses , and plans to add Italian and German by the end of the year .
LearnPlus also offers free trial language lessons , but does not feature the cultural immersion component included in Parlo .
Several other online-only language offerings are aimed at the casual traveler that simply wants to ask directions .
Most of the language-learning sites on the Web are beginning to gain momentum just as traditional players , such as The Learning Company , are facing hard times .
Its parent company -- toy giant Mattel -- recently announced plans to sell the seven-year-old foreign language instructional CD-ROM maker .
Even though it is up for sale , The Learning Company plans to launch online language instruction later this year .
The site is expected to include video -- a component not found in current language sites .
" provides a great way to improve language learning through personalization , " said Teri Clayton , vice president of marketing for Mattel Interactive . "
The Web
People from various sources . "
learn
With both CD ROMs and Web instruction , she said , " we can offer a lot . "
Well-known language instruction company Berlitz also sees huge potential in Web-based instruction .
However , the company is still in the early stages of deploying its offerings online .




Clinton Does Comdex

CHICAGO -- Here 's some free advice for companies hawking their products at trade shows : Before handing it to the leader of the free world , make sure it works .
When President Clinton was strolling through the gargantuan Comdex trade show on Tuesday afternoon , he took a few minutes to stop by Motorola 's wireless booth .
Motorola executive Janice Webb showed him Mya , a sexily packaged product that 's supposed to read the content of websites to you over any telephone .
The problem : Mya got a bad case of laryngitis , choking up halfway through the demo , and the panicked Motorola representative had to start over .
Motorola 's two-way message pager had similar problems .
Webb could n't send anything -- perhaps because the crush of Comdex-bound geeks had overloaded Chicago 's wireless network -- and ultimately gave up .
Clinton also stopped by storagepoint.com , where director of product development Lauren Brinner gave him an account on the system , which lets you store your files on the Internet so you can access them from anywhere .
username:clinton , password : buddy
Brinner suggested Clinton could store sensitive information on the system , but he laughed off the suggestion .
" We 've had enough problems , " Clinton said , referring to the ongoing scandal over thousands of misplaced email messages .
Clinton was in town during the final stop in a whirlwind " digital divide " tour , making him the first president to speak at Comdex .
Earlier in the trip , he ran into his own technological problems : The presidential limo ran out of gas when returning his daughter Chelsea to Stanford University after an event Sunday evening in San Francisco .
At Comdex , Clinton called on the tech-savvy audience to do more to help the less affluent .
" I came here today to ask you to ... devote more time and technology , more ideas an energy , to closing the digital divide , " Clinton said .
" This idea of closing the digital divide is good social policy .
It 's good personal ethics , " he said . "
But it 's also very , very important for our continued economic expansion as a nation . "
After the event , Clinton went to Maxim 's restaurant for a 58th birthday party for Mayor Daley .
" The only thing that I have lingering hard feelings about is that he 's four years older than me and looks younger , " Clinton said .
He was scheduled to return to the White House before traveling to Oklahoma City for a memorial service Wednesday .




Apple on a Roll

Apple Computer Wednesday reported a 47 percent rise in per share income , excluding a one-time gain , to handily beat Wall Street expectations citing strong sales of its Powerbook laptop and G4 high-end desktop computers .
Excluding an after-tax gain of $ 73 million , or 40 cents a share , from the sale of 1.5 million shares of ARM Holdings Plc. , Apple said its profits rose 72 percent to $ 160 million , and its per share profits rose 47 percent to 88 cents .
The Cupertino , California , computer maker said its net income rose to $ 233 million , or $ 1.28 a share , in its fiscal second quarter ended April 1 , up from $ 135 million , or 84 cents a share , a year earlier .
Revenue rose 27 percent to $ 1.94 billion from $ 1.53 billion , and gross margins rose 28.2 percent , up from 26.3 percent in the year-ago quarter .
Wall Street analysts had expected the company to post a profit of 81 cents a share , according to First Call/Thomson Financial .
Apple , which has seen its stock price soar in the last year , also declared a two-for-one stock split .
AAPL
Do n't Ask Jeeves About Profits : Online search engine Ask Jeeves , said Wednesday it had a first quarter loss despite sharply higher revenue .
ASKJ
The company reported a first quarter loss of $ 47.2 million or $ 1.48 cents per share , including non-cash charges , against a net loss of $ 5.9 million or 33 cents per share in the year earlier quarter .
Analysts at First Call/Thomson Financial had predicted a loss of 74 cents .
Revenue for the quarter was $ 17.8 million , compared with $ 1.5 million for the same period last year .
Cnet 's Earnings News : Cnet Networks Wednesday reported a first-quarter operating profit and said its sales more than doubled .
CNET
The Internet company , which runs an online service offering a broad range of technology content , said its pro forma net income was $ 1.5 million or two cents per share .
That figure , however , excluded a host of unusual items like goodwill amortization , merger costs , net losses on investment sales and stock-based compensation .
Including all those items , Cnet posted a net loss in the quarter of $ 19.5 million or 23 cents per share , compared with a profit last year of $ 20.4 million or 23 cents per share .
Total revenue grew to $ 45.4 million from $ 20.1 million .
During the quarter , Cnet acquired the online comparison shopping site mySimon in a $ 700 million stock deal , as part of its new strategy to expand its focus beyond technology .
Earthlink Loses Less Than Expected : EarthLink Network , the second-largest Internet service provider in the United States , Wednesday reported an unexpectedly smaller first-quarter loss from strong revenue and subscriber growth .
ELNK
Atlanta-based EarthLink , which recently completed a merger with MindSpring Enterprises , said it lost $ 50.9 million , or 43 cents a share , before acquisition and one-time merger expenses in the first quarter of 2000 .
Last year , EarthLink had a profit of $ 3.2 million , or 3 cents a share .
Analysts polled by First Call expected a loss of 49 cents in the just-concluded quarter .
Including special items , EarthLink posted a net loss of $ 111.8 million , or 95 cents a share , compared with a loss of $ 31.4 million , or 29 cents .
Revenue rose 69 percent to $ 219.7 million , up from $ 129.9 million .
Conexant Semiconductor Sales Up : Conexant Systems Wednesday beat consensus estimates , driven by strong demand for its communications chips in network and television equipment .
Conexant said pro forma net income for the fiscal second quarter ended March 31 was $ 47 million , or 21 cents per share , compared with $ 8.9 million , or 5 cents a share , in the year-ago period .
These results excluded merger-related charges .
Analysts had forecast an average of 19 cents per share , according to First Call/Thomson Financial .
In a statement , the company said strong demand for its semiconductor products in wireless and networking equipment was leading it to boost its outlook for earnings and revenue growth in the coming quarter and full fiscal year .
Revenue for the quarter jumped to $ 502 million , up 58 percent from the year-earlier quarter 's $ 317 million .
Revenue was down slightly from the seasonally stronger first quarter ended in December , but by far less than analysts expected .
--
Reuters contributed to this report .




Mafiaboy Reaction : ' Yeah , Right '

The hacking community is skeptical that the Canadian Royal Mounted Police have nabbed the perpetrator of Februarys highly publicized denial of service attacks .
Following news that the Mounties charged a Montreal juvenile in the attacks , hackers are demanding evidence that the 15-year-old known by the alias " Mafiaboy " was indeed involved .
" Im highly skeptical , " said B.K. DeLong , a member of Attrition.org , an Internet security group that monitors and archives website cracks and defacement .
" I do n't think they 've found the person who did the attacks .
I think law enforcement is stalling the press and public to keep them off their backs while they find the real person , " DeLong said .
DeLong said his skepticism was based on what appears to be a paucity of evidence linking " Mafiaboy " to the attacks .
According to initial reports , the RCMP found computer logs and the transcript of an online chat group that led them to file the charges against the teen , whose real identity is shielded by Canadian law .
DeLong said law enforcement had already blundered in the case with the arrest of Coolio , a.k.a. Dennis Moran , who was detained by New Hampshire police in March in relation to the attacks , but later was charged with the unrelated defacement of a Los Angeles Police Department anti-drug site .
DeLong also noted that denial of service attacks are notoriously difficult to investigate and there has been a suspiciously long delay between the attacks and the charges .
" I think they should show some definite evidence how they got this guy , " said Scully , editor of Cipherwar , a technology and politics site . "
Chat list logs are not enough . "
Scully said that law enforcement agencies have a poor record of finding and charging cyber-criminals , as evidenced by the four years notorious computer hacker Kevin Mitnick was incarcerated awaiting trial .
This is the second time " Mafiaboy " has been linked to the attacks .
Mafiaboy -- whoever that may be -- first was tabbed as a potential perpetrator of the attacks by an Internet security firm about a week after they occurred .
Even then , hackers expressed their doubts Mafiaboy was involved .
" I seriously doubt that this guy is an actual suspect , " Space Rogue , editor of the Hackers News Network , told Wired News at the time . "
Maybe he did it , but the information I have does n't point to that at all . "




Net Lessons for Labels at Indies

The major recording labels have finally capitulated and will begin selling digital downloads online later this year .
Outside of the staid environment of the recording industry , independent music websites have been rock-n-rolling online , creating the business models the majors might soon be copying .
The success of independent sites that pitch downloadable music to college students has been a thorn in the side of the recording industry .
Looking to cash in on some of online market , two of the big five labels -- BMG and Sony -- last week announced plans to begin selling digital downloads this summer .
Warner Music and Universal recently set up a division specifically to get into this space , but neither company said when they will start selling downloads .
" Just because you have a variety of music in your control does n't mean that you can n't build a community , " said Frank Davis , new media director for EMI 's Astralwerks label . "
The indie community gets the fact that just because somebody likes Fat Boy Slim does n't mean they will n't like Christina Aguilera .
People just like music . "
SpinRecords.com , a division of Solutions Media , is one site attempting to bring together university music fans .
The company on Tuesday announced a system that will stream 12 genres of independent music from its site to college radio stations around the country .
Local DJs can then choose the music they want to use , record their own shows to play in between tracks , and stream their show back through the spinrecords.com servers .
After they graduate and enter the workplace , " The kids in college now are going to be listening to radio on the Internet , so it 's good to get them now , " said Wayne Irving , president of Spin Records .
To make sure it gets established with young listeners , the company also stages weekly shows in Southern California for high schools .
With help from spinrecords.com , college radio stations may find it easier to maintain a consistent programming format , allowing users to settle into a regular listening pattern and interact with like-minded rockers from other schools .
" What the Internet has enabled us to do was to take that niche broadcasting strategy and reach people in the thousands or tens of thousands , " said Bobby Haber , president of the CMJ Network .
While college radio stations reach out to a captive audience on campuses , bringing together regional music scenes has proven to be much more difficult .
Insound is trying to bridge that gap with a one-stop cultural center for ultra-hip , indie music fans separated by geography .




SeekingTell-Tale Cosmic Rays

BUENOS AIRES , Argentina -- Construction has begun in Argentina on the world 's biggest cosmic ray observatory , which will scour the heavens for possible clues on how the universe began , scientists said on Tuesday .
Some 1,600 self-operating optical telescopes scattered across a complex 30 times the area of Paris will be paired with a site in Utah to seek and measure " storms " of cosmic rays -- which have the highest energy levels of any known particle in the universe .
The binational Pierre Auger Observatory will search the skies for the source of cosmic rays and could challenge Albert Einstein 's 1905 special theory of relativity , which explains the relationship between mass , energy , and light , Nobel laureate Dr. James Cronin told reporters .
" This is a very unusual and perfect scientific problem because the source of these particles is a complete mystery , " said Cronin , a physics professor at the University of Chicago and co-director of The Auger Project .
The Argentine government will put $ 15 million toward the expected $ 50 million cost of building the observatory .
The array of telescopes , scattered across a 1,160 square mile site high in the Andes 680 miles west of Buenos Aires , will be hooked up to a central computer capable of measuring the intensity of cosmic rays .
The site was chosen for its vast swathe of empty land and geographical isolation .
Construction of its sister site in Utah has yet to begin .
" It 's best to think of this as a new astronomy where there are sources in the universe which give not light but very high energy particles , " Cronin said .
Some scientists believe cosmic rays may be decayed leftovers from massive particles created in the very early universe , shortly after the Big Bang , said Leeds University physics professor Alan Watson .
" It may be that these particles are created by the matter surrounding black holes , or maybe there are particles in nature we have not yet observed with accelerators , " Watson said .
Argentina hopes that the project will pay economic dividends and raise its status in the scientific community , said Alberto Etchigoyen , coordinator of the Auger Project 's Argentina delegation .
The Argentine part of the observatory , named after a scientist who discovered extensive atmospheric storms of cosmic rays in 1938 , should be completed by 2004 but individual arrays should begin operating within a year , Cronin said .




Error in Genome Done on the Fly

A scientific database mix-up has fanned the fires of the contentious race to map the human genome .
Celera Genomics , which recently claimed to have finished the human genome sequence , inadvertently mixed some human genetic information with that of the fruit fly in a public database .
But Celera officials said Thursday that this type of error is common , and will have no effect on scientific research .
" This is one of the most petty and ridiculous issues ever in the history of science .
This is obviously motivated by people with political motives playing games , " said Dr. Craig Venter , chief scientific officer of Celera .
Federal officials who monitor the research database , called GenBank , spotted the mistake a few days ago .
Celera has since retracted the errant information .
In virtually every genome sequencing project , so-called " alien DNA " will show up due to the extremely high sensitivity of the equipment used to analyze the genes , Venter said .
Celera recently published its map of the Drosophila , or fruit fly genome , in Science in collaboration with researchers at the University of California at Berkeley .
The researchers touted the accomplishment as proof that their gene sequencing technique , called the " shotgun " method , is valid , accurate , and fast .
Even the Celera 's rivals hailed the accomplishment .
Celera is using the same method to map the human genome .
But the mistake has fueled friction between the publicly funded Human Genome Project and Celera .
Each side of the effort has ridiculed the other 's scientific methods and intentions .
Scientists with the Human Genome Project said that this error and possibly others show that Celera is more concerned with speed than quality .
" This mistake certainly raises questions with regards to accuracy , " said Steve Scherer , an assistant professor of molecular and human genetics at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston , part of the public genome mapping effort .
The public project has an agreement called the Bermuda standards , which state that there should be no more than one mistake every 10,000 bases .
The Drosophila genome contains 180 million bases , while the human genome has about 3 billion .
The public effort posts the data it discovers every 24 hours in GenBank .
Celera entered its fruit fly genome map into the database after publishing the research , and says it will do the same with its human genome map .
" The advantage to making data public is that people can find your mistakes as quickly as possible , " Scherer said . "
By holding onto it privately no one knows and those mistakes would be propagated forward . "




IBM Thinks Small

The biggest computer company in the world is thinking small , at least for its PC line .
IBM Wednesday expanded its PC 300 line with a new model sporting a smaller footprint that incorporates some ease-of-use elements from the company 's consumer systems .
The new PC 300 is aimed at the small to mid-size business segments , along with secondary schools and home users .
The new PC 300 is about the size of an average VCR , but unlike most tiny footprint PCs , it 's not thin client .
The system comes with a 600 MHz or 667 MHz Pentium III chip , or a 500 , 533 , or 600 MHz Celeron chip .
It also has built-in Ethernet 10/100 networking , 32 or 64 MB of SDRAM , and either a 5 GB or 10 GB hard drive .
The new system offers a choice of Windows 98 or Windows NT 4.0 and includes Lotus SmartSuite Millennium , Norton AntiVirus , and Netscape Communicator .
The warranty is for one year on labor and three years on parts , whereas the Aptiva is typically one year for both parts and labor .
The PC 300 is different from the PC 300 GL and PC 300 PL lines because it borrows some technology from the Aptiva line .
" This is the first box that converged our Aptiva and PC 300 design teams , " said Greg Ross , worldwide brand manager for desktop marketing at the IBM Personal Systems Group , in Research Triangle Park , North Carolina . "
There were some ease-of-use features from Aptiva and the ruggedness from the commercial side that were blended together . "
IBM also announced Wednesday an Aptiva model that is nearly identical to the PC 300 .
However , the new Aptiva will be offered only as a mini-tower , while the PC 300 has both desktop and mini-tower versions .
One analyst said IBM is finally getting it right when it comes to selling to the user .
" I think they are trying to create a winning formula that they have n't had up to now , by not segmenting the PC so much that they have people confused , and rallying around a few models that have the features people want , " said Sam Albert , president of Sam Albert Associates , in Scarsdale , New York .
" In the past , IBM has segmented the marketplace into so many different kinds of users that they confused people as to what to order , " said Albert . "
They had too many choices , and people did n't classify themselves into these categories that IBM had for them .
They have really optimized their way of dealing with customer needs and requirements . "




DoS Attacks : Blame Canada

WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Justice Department rejoiced Wednesday after a 15-year-old allegedly responsible for an attack on CNN.com was arrested in Canada .
" I am so pleased with the important breakthrough we have had in this investigation , " Attorney General Janet Reno told reporters during an impromptu press conference on Capitol Hill .
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police charged " Mafiaboy " with two counts of assailing CNN 's site .
But what about the culprits responsible for attacks earlier during that week of February 7 against even more visible destinations , including Yahoo , eBay , and Amazon.com ?
Reno refused to say anything , and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police were n't any more forthcoming during a press conference earlier in the day .
It seems likely , however , that the joint U.S.-Canadian effort nabbed the most visible suspect first , and other arrests will take considerably longer .
Mafiaboy , the Montreal youth arrested this week , captured officials ' attention just days after the attack , when someone using that name boasted of the exploits in Internet chatrooms .
During a transcript of one conversation , acquired by Wired News at the time , Mafiaboy appeared to try to recruit allies .
" So mafiaboy , it was really you that hit ALL those ones in the news ? " somone using the name Mshadow asked .
" U just pin em so hard they can n't even redirect , " he answers , going on to say that he had even bigger targets in mind for future attacks .
" I 'm thinking something big , " he writes . "
Maybe www.nasa.gov . "
That was more than enough to interest the feds .
" &#91;Mafiaboy&#93 ; publicized on many occasions that he was the person responsible for those attacks , " an RCMP spokesman said Wednesday .
The RCMP , which said it could not release the name of a juvenile , said it searched Mafiaboy 's home , seized his computers , and will send a detailed report on their contents to the prosecutor .
Mafiaboy was brought before a judge on Monday and released on bail .
The bail conditions bar him from using a computer except " for academic reasons and he must be under direct ... supervision of a teacher , " the RCMP said .
Canadian police officials said that Mafiaboy 's alleged exploits did n't require particular technical skill .
" It is in our estimation that Mafiaboy was n't that good , " said Sgt. Jean-Pierre Roy of the RCMP . "
He was n't what we could call a genius . "
In Washington , Reno said the investigation was ongoing .
" I pledged our commitment to tracking down the people responsible , the cyber-culprits .
I believe this recent breakthrough demonstrates our capacity to track down those who would abuse this remarkable new technology and track them down wherever they may be , " she said .




Kids ' Privacy an Act , or Action ?

In a matter of hours , thousands of sites will officially be subject to one of the most far-reaching pieces of privacy regulation to hit the Internet .
The Children 's Online Privacy Protection Act -- COPPA , as it 's usually called -- goes into effect Friday .
COPPA mandates that sites collecting personal information from children under age 13 must obtain parental permission first .
Loren Thompson , attorney with the Federal Trade Commission 's Division of Advertising Practices , said there 's been more than enough time for most companies to comply .
The rule was signed into law in 1998 .
" Most have been very conscientious and diligent about complying to the law , " she said .
Several kids ' site companies , including Headbone.com , Surfmonkey.com , and Agirlsworld.com have issued press releases announcing their compliance .
But others have decided it 's just too much of a hassle to obtain parental consent for all the kids who use their site .
Karen DeMars , president of online matchmaker Ecrush.com , has decided to ditch her 2,000 under-12 subscribers .
" It 's really a question of resources , " she said . "
We 're a startup , and we just decided that it would be just easier not to have those kids registered . "
Travis Plunkett , legislative director of Consumer Federation of America , said companies have an exaggerated idea of what it takes to bring their sites into compliance with the new law .
The parental consent COPPA requires is defined as a two-tiered rule .
If the company is merely collecting personal information for internal purposes , email verification is sufficient .
But if the company is going to sell or give the information to a third party , consent must come in fax form , mail form , a call to an 800 number , or an email with a digital signature .
" It 's not an onerous burden , " he said . "
It probably costs 50 cents a kid . "
Ecrush is n't alone , however .
NBCi angered its pre-teen clientele in February when it decided to cancel their email accounts .
" It was the surest way for us to obey the law , " said NBCi spokeswoman Francis Burn .
Try telling that to the kids .
" I can n't believe you all did that ! " wrote one angry girl whose ecrush account was deactivated . "
Me , and a lot of my friends had accounts with ecrush that were going great !
We had it going with our crushes and a lot of guys were crushin ' on us who were our lists !
My friend Halley is going to be really upset .
She and her crush were getting ready to hook up through ecrush !
Now she wont even get to know who her crush was ! "
But should a 12-year-old be meeting someone she was matched up with online anyway ?
Although ecrush only matches kids who have listed each other as a crush -- thereby eliminating pedophile predators looking for a match , DeMars admits her service is probably best saved for the teenagers .
" If I had a 12-year-old , I probably would n't want them submitting personal information , " DeMars said .
The people who helped COPPA become a law say the rule is designed to protect kids , plain and simple .
" If you 're going to do business with children , there have got to be some rules for the game , " said Kathryn Montgomery , president of the Center for Media Education , a privacy rights group that has been lobbying for COPPA since 1996 .
Without naming names , the FTC 's Thompson said there were many sites that still had n't done anything about the law .
" There are some sites that really offend me , " she said . "
They do n't require registration for chat rooms .
You can just hit your back button and change your age . "
She said the danger of letting kids online without supervision is real .
" I logged onto a chat room as an 11-year-old girl .
Someone immediately asked me to talk to dirty to him .
And this was my first time , " she said .
COPPA violators -- who will only get dinged if they specifically cater to children -- will face $ 11,000 per violation , the FTC says .
Jason Catlett , president of online privacy advocacy group Junkbusters , is skeptical about enforcement .
" If you look at the history of the FTC 's enforcement actions , they have been few in number and gentle in force , " he said . "
I would be astonished if the FTC would ring the cash register for significant sums . "
While it remains to be seen how strict the FTC 's enforcement will be , it will affect more and more children as they get hooked up to the Internet .
Jupiter Communications says that 11.4 million children aged 12 and under used the Internet in 1999 , and by 2003 , that number is expected to jump to 24.3 million .
And as more kids get shut out from companies who decide they are not worth the trouble , they are not likely to appreciate COPPA .
" It is not fair , " wrote one young user about the law . "
Why in the world does it make a difference if I am 12 or 13 ?
What 's the difference ? "




MS ' Two Cents : Profits Rise

SEATTLE -- Microsoft Corp.
Thursday said its third-quarter profits rose 23 percent , beating Wall Street estimates by 2 cents a share despite what the world 's biggest software company said was light demand for business PCs in the period .
The Redmond , Wash.-based giant said net profits for the three months ended March 31 rose to $ 2.39 billion , or 43 cents a share , compared to $ 1.91 billion , or 35 cents a share a year earlier .
The company , which makes the Windows operating system found on about 80 percent of personal computers , had been expected to earn 41 cents a share , according to consensus analyst estimates compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial .
However , the results appeared to disappoint investors as Microsoft stock fell 3-3/16 , or 4 percent , to 75-3/4 in after-hours trading .
Revenues for the three months were $ 5.66 billion , compared to $ 4.6 billion a year earlier .
Pretax operating income hit $ 2.73 billion while investment gains added another $ 885 million .
Sales to computer makers were light due to an early slowdown in demand for business PCs , but the market appeared to pick up later on , Chief Financial Officer John Connors said in an interview .
Revenue from computer makers rose a mere 4.8 percent , to $ 1.67 billion , the earnings statement showed .
" The story is consistent with many prior quarters .
We had good growth in our core franchises , specifically Office , " Connors said , referring to Microsoft 's popular suite of business software .
Windows sales rose a lower-than-expected 14 percent due to the lagging PC sales , Connors said .
He blamed much of the slowdown on a shortage of Intel Corp. 's high-end Pentium III microprocessors .
" That was a little lower than we thought because PC demand was soft .
There were parts shortages for business PCs , specifically Pentium III shortages .
But we expect that growth to ramp up a bit " next quarter , Connors said .
However , in the company 's earnings release , Connors said he was " guarded " about near-term growth in the business PC market .
Although Microsoft had shipped 1.5 million copies of Windows 2000 , its new industrial-strength operating system for business computers , Connors said it was still too early for that product to have an impact on the bottom line .
" We did n't get a lot of benefit this quarter due to it being primarily a business product and because it launched late in the quarter , " Connors said .
Geographically , Microsoft saw the strongest improvement in Asia , where an economic recovery powered 44-percent growth in sales , to $ 709 million .
Sales in the South Pacific and Americas region grew 32 percent to $ 2.02 billion while Europe , the Middle East and Africa rose 28 percent to $ 1.26 billion .
Connors , who took over as chief financial officer from Greg Maffei in early January , said Microsoft 's investment portfolio had reached $ 21.3 billion while its cash hoard now topped $ 21.2 billion .
" The valuations of a number of our positions have gone up quite a bit in the last six months , " he said , adding that the company would continue to cash out some gains in its portfolio , as it has done for the past six quarters .




Worm Suspect Arrested

MANILA -- The ground-floor flat in a lower middle-class Manila neighborhood where the " Love Bug " was said to originate is an unlikely setting for the birth of the most virulent virus ever to hit the world 's computers .
More than two dozen plainclothes officers from the Philippine National Bureau of Investigation thoroughly searched the dilapidated two-room flat Monday after receiving search warrants , and arrested Reomel Ramones , a 27-year-old man living there .
They were also seeking his live-in 23-year-old girlfriend , Irene de Guzman , who was at work at the time .
The couple were named in two separate search warrants for the same address .
The woman being sought by Philippine authorities is expected to surrender on Monday , officials said .
" She will be coming , " NBI chief Federico Opinion told reporters .
He said she had sent a message through legal counsel that she would turn herself in either later Monday or on Tuesday .
Scores of cameramen and reporters descended on the 40-year-old Bagong Barangay housing project as news spread that NBI officers were on the way there .
After a 3-1/2 hour search , NBI officers left with Ramones in handcuffs .
Gil Alnas , chairman of the local residents council , said the NBI officers took away 17 items including a telephone , telephone wiring , and computer magazines -- but no computer .
" There was no computer in the house , " Alnas told reporters .
The search warrants , issued by a Manila judge , said there was reason to believe that equipment in the house -- including possibly computers and peripheral equipment , telephones , and other hardware -- had been used in violation of the Access Devices Regulation Act .
Opinion said agents obtained the search warrants after three days of fruitless efforts to seize evidence that might point to the source of the virus which penetrated computers last week , including those of the Pentagon .
It was quickly traced back to the Philippines and on Saturday the NBI began surveillance of the premises from where the virus was suspected to have been spread .
But authorities were unable to obtain a search warrant until Monday because under Filipino law , hacking is not a crime .
The Access Devices Act governs the use of codes , account numbers , and passwords giving access to different types of devices .
The law provides for a maximum punishment of 20 years in jail for violators .
Opinion said investigators had taken away some computer diskettes , but would not comment further .
He said the seized material was being analyzed .
Neighbors said the suspect couple was quiet , unassuming , and kept pretty much to themselves .
" She was nice , " said one woman . "
She would smile at me when passing , but I hardly ever talked to her .
I did n't know the man either .
But I do n't think they were married . "
Another neighbor said de Guzman could often be seen in the area going down to buy bread from a bakery on the crowded main street . "
She is a quiet , pretty woman , " he said .
Alnar , from the residents ' council , said the flat was owned by de Guzman 's father , but that he had left Manila some years ago . "
Since then Irene has been living here with this man , " he said .
The search and the arrest provided several hours of entertainment in the neighborhood .
Residents left their homes to peer at the camera crews and the NBI officers , one of whom had an ill-concealed revolver thrust into his waistband .
A group of teenage boys hurriedly abandoned their impromptu basketball game to jeer at the officers .




Dinosaurs Were Warm-Blooded

WASHINGTON , DC -- Surprise images of the insides of a 66 million-year-old dinosaur show it had the heart of a warm-blooded animal , adding to evidence that dinosaurs were not slow and plodding but quick and hungry , scientists said on Thursday .
They used a computed tomography scan on a fossil nicknamed " Willo " to show the 66 million-year-old dinosaur had a four-chambered heart more akin to a human than to a lizard .
CT
CT scans use X-rays and computer software to " peel away " layers of tissue , or in this case layers of dirt and fossilized bone , to image inside a body .
The scientists ' report , published in the journal Science , describes how they used the X-ray technology developed for use by doctors to peek inside the ancient fossil .
" Not only does this specimen have a heart , but computer-enhanced images of its chest strongly suggest it is a four-chambered , double-pump heart with a single systemic aorta , more like the heart of a mammal or bird than a reptile , " Dale Russell , a paleontologist at North Carolina State University who helped coordinate the study , said in a statement .
The fossil , on display at the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences , was dug up in 1993 in South Dakota .
It was exceptionally well-preserved , so the researchers decided to look at it using CT scans .
" We have been doing pieces of dinosaurs off and on for a long time , mostly looking for internal bony structures or bones damaged in some way like a fight , " Paul Fisher , director of the university 's veterinary Biomedical Imaging Resource Facility , said in a telephone interview .
" This was the first time we were looking for what used to be soft tissue structures . "
Fisher said they did not know what they would find .
" We were surprised that it is as recognizable as it is -- something that had been in the ground for 65 to 67 million years , " Fisher said . "
We did not think we would put it together in a 3-D model and say , ' Oh my God -- it 's a heart ' .
It is one of those things where a picture is worth a thousand words . "
The study could transform the way paleontology is done .
Until now , researchers have had to rely on little more than bones , and perhaps the imprint of a feather or some skin in rock , to tell how ancient creatures looked .
But in some fossils , soft tissue may remain in a form accessible to CT scans .
Ironically , this soft tissue looked like dirt to early paleontologists , who scraped it away to reveal bones for study and display , Fisher said .
Evidence from bones alone at first suggested that dinosaurs were big reptiles .
Reptiles are cold-blooded and rely on the sun and outside temperature to warm up their bodies enough to move .
They do not eat as often as mammals , which can regulate their own body temperature and have a faster metabolism .
Scientists have had hints , however , that dinosaurs might be more akin to mammals and to birds -- which many believe to be the living descendants of dinosaurs .
In January 1999 , U.S. and Italian researchers used ultraviolet light to peer inside the chest of a fossil baby dinosaur and found its organs were laid out like a bird 's or mammal 's .
And other researchers looking at fossilized bones of dinosaurs have found suggestions that they had many blood vessels inside , again indicative of a warm-blooded metabolism .
But no one had hoped for such conclusive evidence .
" It 's truly amazing that this animal seems to have had such a highly evolved heart .
The implications completely floored me , " Russell said .
" This challenges some of our most fundamental theories about how and when dinosaurs evolved . "
Reptiles have three-chambered hearts and evolved long before mammals .
The specimen itself is a member of the Thescelosaurus genus , weighed about 660 pounds , and was 13 feet long .
The researchers named it Willo after the wife of the rancher on whose property it was found .
Thescelosaurus means " marvelous lizard " and the researchers believe it was a member of the T. neglectus species . "
Thescelosaurus neglectus , the marvelous neglected lizard , " Russell said . "
Marvelous ?
Yes .
But I do n't think this one is going to be neglected any more . "




Napster Spat Pits Fans vs. Bands

< Editor 's note : This story was modified following its original publication ) .
Napster 's collision course with the music industry is headed for full impact .
As recording artists prepare to join in a chorus of litigation , forcing companies and universities to block access to the utility , fed-up fans are lining up in support of Napster .
One fan became so agitated that he put all of his Metallica merchandise up for sale at eBay on Friday , promising to donate all the proceeds to the parody website paylars.com .
The site allows Napster users to donate money to a fund that will be given to Metallica to help make up for their purported losses from piracy .
" They can have their music and they can have my money , because I want nothing more to do with these sellouts , " the irate fan wrote in an email .
The song " Master of Puppets is fitting....only this time , Metallica is on the wrong end of the strings . "
Although few people have donated money since it launched Thursday , the paylars site received about 3,000 visitors on Thursday , many of whom came to vent about the Metallica imbroglio .
" We 've actually started raising some money , maybe $ 15 , " said site co-creator Mark Erickson . "
But I 'm afraid that their fans are coming here because they are n't really happy with Metallica . "
But the band did n't have much choice when it came time to file the lawsuit , said Metallica lawyer Howard King .
" The band took this pretty personally , " he said . "
The band was made aware of Napster a few months ago and they got angry and pissed off .
They own all of their masters and songs , so there are no record companies in their way .
People are stealing directly from these guys . "
Other musicians see a threat from Napster as well .
Dr. Dre threatened Napster with a lawsuit if all of their songs were not removed from the service 's listing by April 21 , but on Friday extended the deadline indefinitely .
Musicians including the Goo Goo Dolls have started investigating their legal options as well , King said .
( Editor 's note : This story originally reported that the Offspring have been looking into their legal options , but further information indicates this is not the case .
This story was modified with this new information on April 24 . )




Free Car ?
More Like Fool 's Gold

Imagine getting a free car .
Pretty cool , huh ?
Even if it were , say , a pink minivan painted up to be a giant advertisement for sanitary napkins ?
A lot of folks who read an article in Esquire magazine last month were certainly interested in being mobile feminine-hygiene billboards .
Ted Fishman 's piece , a spoof entitled " There Are No Wheels , " detailed a new Internet business called FreeWheelz.com , the dream child of " Stanford MBA grad Skip Lehman " .
because , after all , 74 percent of all male students at Stanford are named Skip , or ought to be
The sham company was based on the idea that advertisers would pay for the car if passengers would agree to drive it .
Lehman , the article said , quickly snagged $ 15 million to start his business at a " Silicon Prairie " conference in Chicago .
He came to the meeting " in a rumpled white shirt , jeans , and a baseball cap with a hole for his ponytail .
He clapped everyone to attention and said , ' I 'm told that in the new economy , if you do n't have an idea , you should wear a suit .
At least you look smart .
Well , I do n't have a good suit , but I 've got a hell of an idea .
' "
" Then he whipped off the baseball cap , to which his ponytail was sewn .
' Now that I 've got your attention , ' he continued , ' let me tell you how you can all get rich and possibly get a free car to boot .
' "
The concepts behind so many startup companies are ridiculous , Fishman said , and he wanted to think of something beyond absurd , writing about it as if it were real .
Esquire never stated that the article was a spoof .
" I really wanted something that seemed an incredibly grandiose idea and people would have an easy idea dismissing , " Fishman said . "
I was wrong . "
His piece fooled a lot of customers , who called up the magazine demanding their " Stayfresh " minivan .
" The phones were off the hook , " said Esquire spokeswoman Jennifer Eason .
The article was so convincing that David Guard , co-founder of the startup Mobile Billboard Network , apparently got scared too .
" He called in a serious panic , " Eason said . "
He called an emergency meeting of his investors .
They actually thought they were going to have to regroup and come up with a new business . "
Guard was a good sport about the hoax , and sent Esquire a letter congratulating them on the article .
" The article was a great spoof and a wonderful inspiration to us because it supports and validates all of our efforts in the last two years , " he wrote .
Mobile Billboard , which has n't officially launched yet , will work a bit differently than Freewheelz ' bogus concept .
Instead of a free car , a customer will actually have to shell out $ 199 to " join " the network .
But if the customer recruits some of his friends to join , he 'll get the money back , and will start earning more as he recruits more .
Think Amway for Autos .
Fishman , who said he was stunned by the response he 's received from the article , said he 's been contacted by several other Internet startups him with names like Myfreecar.com , Freecar.com , and Autowraps.com .
They were all pretty shaken by the news of their new competition , Fishman said , especially the CEO of Freecar.com .
" He said he cried when he read the article , " Fishman said .
" The question I ask myself is , who would go into business with these people , if these are the guys who would think my article was real ? "




Like Mafia Son , Like Mafia Dad

Mafiaboy did n't fall far from the tree , it seems .
Turns out the Canadian police tapped into some rather incriminating telephone calls placed by the 15-year-old cracker 's dad , who allegedly took out a contract on a business colleague .
Lieutenant Lenny Lechman said Mafiaboy 's 45-year-old father was arrested last week and charged with conspiring to commit bodily harm .
" We felt that before somebody gets hurt really badly , we had to intervene as quickly as possible , " Lechman said .
Mafiaboy was charged earlier this week with two counts of mischief for a Feb. 8 denial-of-service attack on CNN.com .
He was fingered as a suspect back in February by Michael Lyle , chief technical officer of Internet-security firm Recourse Technologies Inc. .
Mafiaboy 's dad , whose real name is John Calce , was released on bail Monday .
Mafiaboy himself has also been released , with a Kevin Mitnickian-like stipulation that he stay away from computers .
Canadian police said they are still analyzing data found on the alleged cracker 's seized computers .




Navy Intranet a Security Threat ?

The U.S. Navy 's plan to build the world 's biggest Intranet could create a big security threat and a boondoggle to boot , according to the country 's largest federal employees union .
" We 're concerned about national security , because the Navy 's not able to answer basic questions about how they will protect national security on , and we 're concerned that they 're playing a shell game with money , " said Brendan Danaher , policy analyst for the 600,000 member-plus American Federation of Government Employees .
the new Intranet
AFGE
The union 's barrage is the latest attack on the Navy 's proposal to build a gargantuan , 360,000-seat Intranet that would unify all of the Navy and Marine Corp 's shore-based operations .
The Navy plans to award the $ 10 billion contract for the project to one of four corporate bidders this June -- nine months earlier than originally planned -- reflecting the sea-service 's urgency to reap the benefits of modern info-tech .
Last month , the United States General Accounting Office testified before Congress that the Navy had rushed the proposal to corporate bidders without properly analyzing how it would be funded and managed , and what effect it would have on military and civilian information technology workers .
Since then , embattled Navy representatives have appeared before Congress 53 times to defend their plan .
" There 's been absolutely no one who questions the need , value , or concept of this Intranet , " Navy deputy CIO Ron Turner said . "
They just do n't understand the math we 've put into this . "
But there 's more than a math problem , insists AFGE 's Danaher .
The Navy 's plan to contract out the installation , service , and oversight of the Intranet to a single private company poses an unacceptable national security risk , he said .
" We 're concerned that private companies will put their interest before national security , " Danaher said . "
What if that company 's ownership changes , or its stock price plummets .
Who knows what could happen ? "
That argument lacks a certain sophistication , according to Turner .
" It 's a comment made without looking at how we currently operate .
The government would like you to believe that we control the networks , but we ride on commercial fiber that someone else operates , " he said .
Moreover , the Navy currently operates 100-plus separate networks , all with different firewalls and security , all of which have to interconnect .
That means 100 points of vulnerability , according to Turner .
With a unified Intranet , the Navy can deploy one security system and screw it down tight .
Security will be improved , not degraded , he insists .




VCs Tighten Wallet for MBAs

NEW YORK -- The golden days when venture capitalists seemed to throw money at any enterprise carrying the dot-com tag are drawing to a close , say would-be Internet moguls now attending some of the most prestigious U.S. business schools .
" At one point , any semi-decent idea would get funding .
Now with the market the way it is , it 's going to be a lot harder , " said Pravan Malhotra , 27 , a first-year Master 's in Business Administration student at the University of Pennsylvania 's Wharton School .
Malhotra is a founder of GradVentures , a company that provides early-stage advice to other student startups .
" Funds are going to be a little more conservative than in the past .
I think there will be a shakeout , " he said .
For the last several years , top business schools like Wharton have hemorrhaged students to Web startups .
Last summer , Malhotra said , 28 students out of a class of about 800 did n't come back to school after their first year , preferring to extend their summer dot-com jobs , or start their own company .
And he said eight students in his class have already dropped out to pursue their own Web-related business plans .
But a tougher environment for Internet startups this year could foreshadow a swing in student interest back to traditional MBA employers : established technology firms , consulting companies and investment banks .
Even though the U.S. stock market has staged a strong recovery in the past few sessions , last week 's sharp drop in technology and Internet stocks unsettled many entrepreneurial students , said William Sahlman , a professor at the Harvard Business School and co-chairman of its entrepreneurial studies program .
" The venture capital community is going to reassess how many bets they make and what kind of bets they make , " Sahlman said .
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index last week plummeted to 34 percent below its record highs , reached only last month , prompting many Internet companies -- like search engine AltaVista -- to postpone their initial public offerings .
Last Friday alone the composite dropped about 10 percent .
And even though the index has recovered some of the lost ground this week , analysts say the near free-fall has forced investors to face up to the vulnerability of dot-com startups after the tech sector 's long bull run .
Sherrie Gong Taguchi is the director of the Career Management Center at Stanford University Business School in Palo Alto , California , which funnels many students to nearby Silicon Valley .
She said the volatile market could influence which enterprises students are willing to take a chance on .
" This market may affect some student decisions at the margin , potentially impacting weaker companies , " she said .
While last week 's share volatility prompted a new wave of trepidation , some venture capitalists say the standard needed to get funding actually has been rising for as long as a year .
" A lot of the low hanging fruit for Internet businesses is no longer there , " said Erik Lassila , who graduated from Stanford in 1996 and works for venture capital fund Idealab Capital Partners . "
The bar is higher now . "
He said his company would still look at students with bright ideas -- or " a team of smart meat eaters from Stanford University " -- but that it was more important than ever to prove that they had the experienced management to grow the company .
And new companies must show that they have an original idea , a feat Lassila and other venture capitalists said is getting harder and harder in online retailing .
Last week , Forrester Research , a leading Internet research firm , issued a study that predicted that most Web retailers would go out of business by 2001 , undermined by weak financial structures , mounting competitive pressures , and investor flight .
" Whatever it is you want to be ' e-tailing , ' there are already 10 other companies doing it , " said Matthew Yu , who works for an early-stage venture fund in New York City .
Indeed , venture capitalists are becoming weary of Internet companies with no profits on the horizon . "
A business model now not only has to show how you generate revenue , but also how you generate a profit , " Yu said .
The losers in the new environment may be companies that are off the ground but seeking second and third rounds of financing , with their cash drained by the heavy costs of building a brand identity on the Internet frontier .
There remains plenty of capital sloshing around looking for good ideas , said Steve Anderson , associate partner at California venture firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers , but backers are getting reluctant to fund companies that have n't met initial goals .
" The market environment is probably making it harder for companies that have gotten initial funding but have n't hit the milestones they first set out , " he said . "
Before there was probably more willingness to take a further risk . "
Harvard 's Sahlman said students are worried about those later rounds of financing .
" They are trying to make sure that they are not climbing out on what used to be a bridge but is now a pier , " Sahlman said .




Softbank 's Aggressive Words

TOKYO -- Japanese Internet investor Softbank went on the offensive Friday after months of watching its shares tumble , trumpeting its fundamental value and putting the spotlight on its potentially lucrative shareholdings .
Chief financial officer Yoshitaka Kitao defended Softbank 's debt levels as healthy following criticisms over its capital structure , described its shares as undervalued and highlighted the earnings potential of its wide range of investments .
His comments came as the market appears to be re-assessing the Japanese company after its shares suffered a steep nosedive from February , losing about 70 percent in value in a reversal of fortune after enjoying a meteoric rise for more than a year .
" Our debt itself is a very small amount , only $ 1.7 or $ 1.8 billion , which is very small , particularly taking into account our huge unrealised gains .
So our current debt position is quite normal , " Kitao said in an interview with Reuters .
Kitao said he regarded Softbank 's shares now as " too cheap , " after falling steadily for two months . "
I think our stock prices are definitely too cheap , taking account of our huge hidden assets , companies like Yahoo , " he said .
Shares in the bellwether Internet stock ended on Friday at 52,300 yen , up their maximum allowable daily limit of 3,000 , or 6.09 percent .
The stock began rising earlier this week in what some traders took as a sign it may have reached a bottom .
The stock remains far below a February 15 peak of 198,000 yen although from a longer-term perspective it 's well above the 7,000 yen seen at the start of last year .
Kitao put the focus on several of Softbank 's investments that could generate longer term revenue streams , or could be used for a quick infusion of capital in the Softbank group .
Asked if Softbank would consider selling some of its 51 percent stake in Yahoo Japan Corp. , a popular Japanese Internet portal that is 34 percent owned by U.S.-based Yahoo , Kitao said this was possible .
" We have over 50 percent ... having 50 percent means something but still if we reduce the contribution to 35 percent , what 's the big difference ? " he said . "
I did n't say we are going to sell Yahoo Japan , but if it 's necessary we can sell . "
Kitao added that Yasumitsu Shigeta , president of troubled Internet investor Hikari Tsushin Inc. , had decided to resign from Softbank 's board , but did not elaborate .
" I understand that he will resign from our board .
So I think sooner or later , it will be public , " he said .
Kitao launched a strong attack against Hikari Tsushin in Hong Kong last month , calling them copycats and ruling out any cooperation with them .
He then called on Shigeta to resign from the Softbank board .
Hikari Tsushin is due to announce poor earnings for the half-year to February on Monday .
Its shares closed at 21,800 yen , down by their daily limit of 2,000 yen .
Kitao also said Nippon Credit Bank , a failed bank which Softbank and several partners are to take over , is expected to be listed again in a couple of years .
NCB
" If we chose right board members , then Nippon Credit Bank will be again listed ... we are expecting that in a couple of years , " he said .
A glimmer of hope emerged on Tuesday for Japan 's hard-hit Internet shares after Yahoo Japan announced a parent current profit of 2.03 billion yen for the year to end-March , five times the previous 391 million yen .
$ 19.4 million
Most traders , however , say it is too early to declare the worst over for Softbank and other Japanese Internet stocks , which have occasionally managed modest bounces in recent weeks only to resume their downward slide .




Texas Winds Up for Green Energy

AUSTIN , Texas -- Renewable energy consultant Mike Sloan is a typically cheery soul , but these days , he 's positively beaming .
Wind-powered generators , long shunned by Texas electric utilities , are primed to break into the state 's energy market on a scale unthinkable since the Reagan era .
By this time next year , 350 megawatts of new wind power are scheduled to come online .
By 2003 , Texas wind farms could be cranking out as much as 2,600 megawatts of electricity .
That 's only a slight jolt on the state 's electric power grid , which can generate a total of around 70,000 megawatts .
Still , it amounts to triple-digit annual growth in an industry that five years ago was being sold mostly door-to-door to farmers and hobbyists .
" It 's inevitable .
Wind is going to be a winner , " said Sloan , a 12-year veteran of the renewable power industry who remembers well the days when wind turbines harnessed mostly tax credits .
Never before has Texas , a province of petroleum interests which ranks dead last nationally in its use of renewable fuels , created such a fertile environment for renewable power , Sloan said .
Last year 's landmark electric utility restructuring bill , Senate Bill 7 , forces the state 's privately-owned utilities to open their service areas to competition by 2002 .
And in a surprising victory for environmentalists , it requires utilities to generate 2,000 megawatts of additional electricity from renewable sources by 2009 .
Utility boards have since been scrambling to buy renewables , mostly from wind farms , making Texas the hottest green-energy market in the nation .
" If we can n't make it as an industry now , " Sloan said , " it 's our fault . "
European technology has dramatically improved the efficiency of wind turbines over the past decade , dropping the price of wind energy to within 10 to 20 percent of that produced in natural gas plants .
Still , Texas utilities are standoffish about imposing any price increase on the general population .
Instead , " green power " marketing campaigns are springing up across the state , asking voluntary subscribers to pay more for their electricity to help fund the addition of renewable energy sources .
That strategy frustrates die-hard believers , who say premium pricing relegates renewable energy to the " health food " section of the utility supermarket , when -- from an environmental cost perspective -- it 's the biggest bargain .
" It 's trying to get us to settle for a boutique store when we ought to be able to own the whole mall , " said Michael Osborne , a wind energy consultant for Enron who serves on Austin 's Resource Management Commission . "
Why not have ' brown ' rates instead ? "




E-Books for Writers , Not Readers

E-books are being downloaded but not read , according to an independent poll conducted last week by The Book Report Network .
While 5 percent of the survey respondents said they bought Stephen King 's e-book , Riding the Bullet , less than 1 percent claim to actually have read it .
" Few if any have bought any other e-books .
The attraction was Stephen King , not the e-book format , " said Carol Fitzgerald , The Book Report Network CEO and founder .
But readers may not be the main market for many of the new online publishers that are cropping up .
Startups are offering not only to get books published via e and print on demand , but into the hands of agents , publishers , and in some cases movie producers .
POD
According to Melanie Rigney , editor of Writers Digest magazine , there are over 24 million creative writers in the United States , less than 5 percent of whom are published .
Companies such as Xlibris , iUniverse , and Mightywords are wooing the other 95 percent with a vengeance .
" The Internet has destroyed the old model of ' vanity publishing ' making self publishing more acceptable than ever before , " she said .
While the majority of these new companies are reputable and do offer a valuable and democratizing service , Rigney said that at the end of the day this is still self publishing .
" Read the fine print and choose among these ' co-op publishers ' with as much care as you would chose a doctor , " she recommends .
" Authors are now a population of customers and like all customers must heed the warning ' caveat emptor ' , " said Xlibris CEO John Fledcamp .
There are many e-publishers , including Diskus Publishing and Hard Shell Word Factory , that function much like traditional publishers .
They are highly selective , edit manuscripts , in some cases pay advances in addition to royalties , and do extensive cover design , marketing , and distribution .
But the new breed of co-op and POD publishers do n't screen , have relatively little distribution , and charge for extras such as editing or creating more than a boilerplate cover .
Xlibris , partially owned by Random House Ventures Inc. , does not have set up fees , but offers extras that can add up to over $ 1,000 .
Starting in May , the company plans to have an editorial board sift through submissions , looking for books to get into the hands of agents and publishers .
" We expect to shop one out of every 200 books to the publishing titans , " said Fledcamp .
IUniverse , which is partially owned by Barnes & Noble , charges a $ 99 set up fee and also offers more extras for a charge .
" We 're not just saying it -- we 're getting our author 's books into bricks and mortar stores , " said iUniverse CEO , Richard Tam .
But Tam refused to comment on how many titles are in stores or how many copies of individual titles have been sold .
The most recent addition to the growing list of publishing/display sites , Goodstory.com , is slated to go live in May .




Of Pixels and Paper

PALO ALTO , California -- Remember the paperless office ?
No one talks about it much anymore , maybe because they are too busy printing out e-mails , articles from online newspapers , and all the other written material they now have access to thanks to the wonders of technology .
But as Earth Day arrives on Saturday , environmentalists say a society that has so readily embraced technology should remember one of the promised benefits that the Internet has failed to deliver .
At one time , computers were expected largely to eliminate the need for paper copies of documents because they could be stored electronically .
But for all the volumes of text that are now created , stored , and transmitted electronically , an awful lot of it is still ending up on paper .
It is difficult to measure how much paper consumption has resulted from the proliferation of Internet-connected computers , although just about anyone who works in an office can testify that when email is introduced , the printers start working overtime .
" I do n't have any hard data , but I know in my bones that this revolution that was designed to be paperless is causing more trees to be cut down , " says Ted Smith of the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition .
Aside from the loss of trees , paper production itself is highly toxic , consuming large amounts of chlorine and putting more dioxin into the environment .
Perhaps the best indication of how computer and Internet use fuels demand for paper comes from the tech industry itself , which has identified printing as one of its most promising new market opportunities .
Several Internet companies including ImageX.com Inc , iPrint.com Inc , and printCafe have been created to help consumers and small businesses print professional quality documents from a PC .
And printing giant Hewlett-Packard Co says that far from seeing a slowdown resulting from the rise of electronic ink , demand for printing the old-fashioned way -- on paper -- is exploding .
Earlier this week the company unveiled a sweeping initiative to develop new technologies that will enable consumers to print even more -- from cell phones , pagers , and other devices -- so they can get a hard copy of a business document , a medical record , or just a memorable one-line email , even if they are nowhere near a PC .
It may seem ironic , but this new printing strategy is central to Hewlett-Packard 's Internet strategy .
As the company sees it , the increased use of the Internet will correlate directly with increased demand for printers .
It says it expects the $ 40 billion worldwide market for printing and imaging will be a $ 100 billion market in just three years .
" People love paper , " says Carolyn Ticknor , who heads Hewlett-Packard 's printing and imaging services unit .
" I know people who like to read the newspaper online .
Well , I like to read the paper in the bathtub , and I 'm not going to take a laptop in there .
...
I like to buy stocks online .
But when I execute a trade , you better believe I make a paper printout of the transaction . "
To demonstrate how the Internet creates new ways to use printers as often as it offers ways to do without them , one of Hewlett-Packard 's partners in its new printing strategy is NewspaperDirect.com , which lets consumers order up international newspapers , so they can read the news from California when they are traveling abroad .
Of course consumers can already go to the Internet to read the news from remote locales , but a lot of them prefer holding the paper , explained a spokesman who came to the Hewlett-Packard event to show off his paper goods .
Are these printed on recycled paper ? "
No , no , " the spokesman responded as he handed out samples of the weighty papers . "
It 's white bond paper . "
Does this mean environmental concerns have been forgotten ?
Some activists suggest people have been lulled into believing a lot of threats to the environment have gone away .
" I suspect that there is just an assumption that the problem is taken care of , because of recycling , " said Kelly Quirke , executive director of the Rainforest Action Network in San Francisco .
Yet Quirke is hopeful that the high-tech trends may also prove helpful .
He says new , more sophisticated e-mail programs that let users filter and file by topic , make it easier to retrieve mail that is stored electronically .
And printers that print on both sides , he says , are growing in popularity .
The group has also endorsed papers made from alternative fibers , including one made from agricultural waste that could help remove pollutants from the environment .
It says it is encouraged by the shift by some major corporations to these new papers .




Fears of Chip Shortage

Advanced Micro Devices , the second largest maker of microprocessors for PCs , said that it has sold out both of its lines for the second quarter , raising fears of a manufacturing shortage that could hurt PC makers .
Unavailable for the remainder of the quarter are AMD 's high-end Athlon processor , as well as its more economical K6-2 chip .
There is genuine concern in the industry , seeing as how the second quarter , leading into summer , has traditionally been a slow one for the sale of microprocessors .
Demand usually picks up in the third and fourth quarters , with the return to school and the holiday shopping season .
" There 's either a shortage going on because of manufacturing constraints at Intel , or incredible demand , " an AMD spokesman said .
Bet the former .
Analysts point to Intel , where a delay in the launch of its 633- and 667-MHz Celeron chips are being blamed on the lack of manufacturing capacity as the company focuses on pumping out as many Pentium III chips as possible .
One analyst said if there is a manufacturing problem , it makes sense for Intel to focus on the Pentium at the expense of the Celeron because of the higher profit margins .
- - -
BMG inks deal with CustonDisc.com : BMG Entertainment , a unit of Bertelsmann AG , said Monday it has signed a " content-for-equity " deal with CustomDisc.com .
The Web startup sells customized compact discs and digital downloads compiled from its library of 200,000 songs .
Under the terms the deal , BMG will make songs from its catalog available to purchase on the privately held CustomDisc.com Web site , in exchange for an undisclosed equity stake .
CustomDisc is near closing its fourth round of financing , with approximately $ 33 million raised so far .
CustondDisc 's chief executive David Gould said , " Our business plan includes offering film , television shows and videos on demand on custom-made discs .
This is a market no one has gotten into yet and we think it has huge potential . "
Bertelsmann is the second major label to sign a content deal with CustomDisc.com .
Sony Music Special Products , a unit of Sony Music Entertainment , inked a similar deal in February .
Alzheimer 's drug OK 'd : The FDA has given Novartis Pharmaceuticals the green light to start selling its drug Exelon , which is used in the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer 's disease .
Trials of Exelon showed it to be effective in mitigating the effects of the disease by blocking the breakdown of a neurotransmitter called acetylcholine .
Acetylcholine is thought to play an important role in memory and cognition .
Novartis said that Exelon has now been cleared for marketing in more than 70 countries , including all 15 member states of the European Union , Switzerland , New Zealand , Australia , Canada , and Mexico .
- - -
Pyramid scheme : Cisco Systems said Monday that it has signed an agreement to help Egypt develop its nascent software-export industry .
Cisco will provide networking equipment for two academies in Cairo that plan on turning out 1,000 skilled computer engineers each year .
As part of the program -- Cisco 's first in the Middle East -- the company will begin training instructors in Europe and the United States , then help establish 10 more academies in Egypt .
Cisco will also provide expertise for a three-year investment program costing Egypt $ 1 billion to establish a high-speed telecommunications network .
- - -
Deal du jour : Qualcomm said Monday that it has invested $ 144 million in NetZero Inc. for a 10 percent stake in the advertising-supported , free Internet access provider .
As part of the deal , NetZero will distribute Qualcomm 's Eudora email management software as its preferred email program .
Qualcomm now holds 11.5 million shares of NetZero .
- - -
New hire : Deborah Hopkins , currently chief financial officer of Boeing Co. , will become CFO at Lucent Technologies .
Hopkins joined the aerospace giant in 1998 after serving as CFO for General Motors European division .
She also spent 13 years at Unisys Corp.
Reuters contributed to this report .




Valley : ' Cruzing ' to the Beach

SANTA CRUZ , California -- " Silicon Beach " may sound like a bad summer replacement show on Fox , but it pretty much sums up the way Silicon Valley spillover has transformed this oceanside community a half-hour south of San Jose .
There are other areas that also claim the Silicon Beach moniker -- South Florida , as well as various Southern California locales -- but Silicon Valley types have chosen to live in the mellow , hippified beach culture in and around Santa Cruz for as long as there has been a Silicon Valley .
What 's new is the influx of technology businesses , so people do not have to make the awful commute over the Santa Cruz Mountains .
Which , in turn , feeds the growing sense of a separate identity .
" It started out as spillover , but now I think it 's reached a critical mass where it has become it 's own scene , " said longtime Santa Cruz resident John Govsky , a senior editor at Cruzio.com .
" Santa Cruz is always ahead of the curve .
People have been willing to work here for $ 10,000 or $ 20,000 less than they could make over the hill .
Now they might not have to compromise , " he said .
Cruzio was the first ISP in the area and now offers tech writing courses at its website and Internet courses in its office .
Software developer Borland International , now called Inprise , has been located in Scotts Valley , just a few miles north of Santa Cruz , since 1983 .
When former Borland chairman and founder Philippe Kahn left the company in 1994 , he started StarFish Software in Santa Cruz , which was later bought by Motorola .
Two of Kahn 's other technology ventures , LightSurf and OpenGrid , are also located in Santa Cruz .
The Santa Cruz Technology Alliance offers a Who 's Who in Monterey Bay technology .
The group estimates that more than 450 tech companies are based in Santa Cruz County now , compared to less than 50 before 1990 and just 262 as recently as 1994 .
That was the year that Marge Cappo , president of educational software developer Learning in Motion , embarked on an international search for the best place to start her company .
She was living in New York at the time and wanted more than just easy access to board meetings .
" We were looking for a nice community , not too large , near the ocean and preferably near mountains , though I 'm not sure the Santa Cruz Mountains qualify as mountains , " she said .
" If people want to get away and take a walk to the ocean and think an idea through , they can .
We love it here . "
Learning in Motion has a modest 50 employees , but it 's only one of 150 computer-related businesses in Santa Cruz itself .
Nearly half of those have popped up in the last two years , according to the San Jose Mercury News .
Not so long ago , Santa Cruz residents would express their resentment of people in the neighboring Santa Clara Valley -- which includes a large chunk of Silicon Valley -- by spray-painting " Valley Go Home " on freeway overpasses .
But the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake wreaked enough havoc in the area to make any kind of economic rebuilding welcome .
And now the Internet has made work-by-modem a widespread fact of life , so the economic links between the two areas can develop without clogging the only route to San Jose -- the windy , two-laned Highway 17 .
" One big change I 've noticed in the last year is I get a lot more calls from people looking to hire my students to work in the field of networking , " said Rick Graziani , who teaches computer science and networking at Cabrillo College .
The Santa Cruz Technology Alliance and the Santa Cruz Chamber of Commerce joined forces in February for a technology trade fair .
The event exceeded expectations , showcasing 95 local companies and attracting thousands of visitors .
There is also a growing acceptance in Silicon Valley that bright , creative people might choose to live on the beach and still be close enough to drive over the hill for a meeting on short notice .
Santa Cruz programmers used to be regarded in Silicon Valley as " goofballs ... doing their own thing , " Santa Cruz resident Brian Pierson , business development manager at Menlo Park-based Informix , told the Santa Cruz Sentinel recently .
But he said that 's changing , and fast .
But the changes are bringing problems , too .
Tech companies are finding there is less vacant office space near the coast , and some residents worry that overcrowding could upset Santa Cruz 's traditional easy-going , unhurried pace .
The venerable Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk is still one of the main landmarks in town , and it has changed little over the decades .
About the only sign of the times a visitor encounters there is at an ice cream stand near the Giant Dipper roller-coaster , where the big sign advertises " Dippin ' Dots , " billed as the " Ice Cream of the Future . "
Still , the thriving new industry in town might not be quite as easy to ignore as misguided attempts to cash in on it .
" I think we 're kind of back where the Model T was when the automobile was invented , " said Graziani . "
I do n't think we 've begun to see how the Internet and computer technology is really going to affect all of our daily lives .
We have an opportunity to look toward the future and make it a positive change for everybody , including people from different economic and ethnic backgrounds . "




Analyst Rocks Microsoft Again

NEW YORK -- Goldman Sachs software industry analyst Rick Sherlund has Wall Street 's ear and Microsoft 's tail .
Sherlund , who has followed the Redmond , Washington-based software company since his brokerage helped take the company public in 1986 and is said to dine with Microsoft executives regularly , has a long history of making the stock rock .
In the latest such move , the boyish looking 44-year-old analyst lowered his recommendation on the stock and trimmed his financial outlook on Microsoft after the company last week cautioned investors to expect slower growth .
Sherlund 's comments , echoed by many on Wall Street , helped send the stock down nearly 16 percent to 67-1/4 on Monday , and triggered a broad sell-off in technology stocks .
The decline also came amid reports that that the U.S. Justice Department may be favoring breaking up the company as punishment for its illegal abuse of monopoly power .
" He 's viewed as the No. 1 software analyst , " said Chuck Hill , director of research for First Call/Thomson Financial . "
He calls them the way he sees them . "
Two weeks ago , his warning that Microsoft 's March quarter revenues would fall short of estimates triggered a 4 percent single-day decline in the company 's share price .
While some analysts are under pressure from the investment banking arms of their firms to tout the record of the companies they track , Sherlund has a reputation for independence despite his long ties to the company , Hill said .
Robert Burgoyne , technology strategist for Monument Funds Group , said while he sometimes disagrees with Sherlund 's views , there was no disputing the influence the analyst has on how investors judge the world 's leading software maker .
" You have to take that very seriously , " Burgoyne said . "
He has influenced many , many billions of dollars .
It takes a lot of guts to say that the thing is not as attractive . "




MS to DOJ : ' Put Up Your Dukes '

WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department is close to seeking a break-up of Microsoft Corp. for violating U.S. antitrust law , a source familiar with the case said Monday , prompting the company to vow a lengthy fight .
The government proposal would split the company in two , with one part making the Windows operating system , including functions to browse the Internet .
The second company would market everything else -- including the Microsoft Office programs -- and would also be allowed to sell Internet software , the source said .
A Microsoft spokesman said any proposal to break the company up was outside the scope of the trial and would require extra time for the company to respond .
The government and 19 states suing Microsoft are to present proposed remedies this week , after District Court Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ruled on April 3 that the company abused its monopoly in the Windows operating system .
News of the proposed break-up , along with disappointing fiscal third quarter results reported on Friday , sent Microsoft shares down sharply , dragging other technology stocks and the Nasdaq market in its wake .
Microsoft shares closed 12-5/16 lower at 66-5/8 , its lowest close in more than a year .
Microsoft Chief Operating Officer Bob Herbold told CNBC any remedies that include breaking up the company are " completely inappropriate .
They do n't match what 's going on in the marketplace . "
Microsoft has argued for years that changing markets make any case against it obsolete , because the market will solve the problems .
But those on the government side have argued that although Microsoft 's products may change , its illegal business tactics have not and that measures must be taken to prevent it from muscling new competitors .
Microsoft spokesman Jim Cullinan told Reuters that breaking up the company was beyond the scope of the trial so far , and would result in drawing the already long-running proceedings out even further .
" It 's almost like a whole new trial , " Cullinan said . "
They 're going to have to justify their remedies . "
" There 's a need for us to fully explore the government 's proposal and develop and present a response that addresses all of our concerns about the proposed remedy and the potentially damaging impact it can have on Microsoft , the industry and consumers , " Cullinan said .
A spokeswoman for the Justice Department had no comment .
A spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller , who is heading the states ' effort , also had no comment .
In addition to proposing to break the company up , the source said the department is also likely to seek stringent limits on the firm 's conduct while the case is being appealed , the source said .
Microsoft could ask a higher court to stay the conduct limits when it appealed .
Once the government files its proposed remedies , Microsoft will reply on May 10 with its objections , its own proposed remedy and its suggestions for the process during the remainder of the trial .
The government will file once more on May 17 .
Jackson will hear oral arguments on a penalty on May 24 .
The source said Attorney General Janet Reno has already been briefed on her department 's proposal .
The Justice approach is being reviewed by the states as they decide whether to come on board with the plan .




DSL In Every 550 MHz-Plus Pot

NEW ORLEANS -- Life with DSL can be hard , but new software-based products may soon make getting fast Internet access much easier .
In an effort to spur demand for broadband , Motorola and PCtel demonstrated technology at the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference on Monday that puts DSL hardware inside the next generation of PCs .
digital subscriber line
Because of a myriad of standards and lack of compatibility between consumer products and telecom equipment , getting DSL installed generally requires buying both the hardware and service from the same company .
And even after paying for the external DSL modem and its installation , consumers frequently must make repeated tech support calls to get the equipment to work .
" is in the painful growing stage , similar to what happened with analog modems a few years ago when there were competing technologies , " said Michael Tramontano , Motorola 's marketing director .
DSL
Motorola demonstrated softDSL , technology that uses the computer 's CPU instead of fixed-function DSL devices , which can cost more than $ 200 , and may only work with a specific telecom carrier .
SoftDSL-enabled PCs will be software upgradeable , so if you buy a new computer and can n't connect to your DSL carrier , you can download a patch .
Tramontano warned that DSL will be in a state of flux for the foreseeable future -- similar to analog modems which featured faster speeds and new features almost every year -- often requiring costly hardware upgrades .
He said SoftDSL should help minimize some of the headaches as the DSL standards shakeout occurs over the next few years .
Although Tramontano said the company was unlikely to guarantee that its products will work with every DSL service , he 's confident that it will work with the majority of DSL flavors .
" our lawyers do n't like to say guarantee "
Tramontano said softDSL cuts the cost of the hardware by between 30 and 40 percent , and although the company has not announced any partners , he think companies such as Gateway and Dell may include it in their $ 1,500 PCs early in 2001 .
And if they build it in , he said , consumers will come .
" If they already have the capability in their computers , they are much more likely to try DSL than if they have to buy a separate box , " he said .
Tramontano said that one-third of all modems sold today similarly offload some of the processing to the CPU .
Tramontano said that a 550 MHz or faster processor is required , and although the first softDSL-enabled PCs will use Windows , the company is working on moving the technology to Linux .
PCtel , a Milpitas , California communications company , was also demonstrating a software DSL product , which it expects will be available by the third quarter of this year .
PCtel 's card will include both a V.90 modem and DSL , and will cost PC makers only about $ 30 to add , according to James Horng , director of technical marketing .
Horng said consumers can start using the familiar V.90 dialup service , and upgrade to DSL by downloading software .
And , of course , dialup service is a good backup strategy for those inevitable DSL problems .
He said the technology will be used in more expensive PCs at first , and requires processors of 500 MHz and greater .
Horng said they are currently testing the hardware with the leading telecom equipment to make sure it is compatible .




Handy DNA Analysis

A biochip company is closer than ever to producing a handheld device to look at DNA in a doctor 's office .
Clinical Micro Sensors Monday announced the results of a research study showing its technology , called the eSensor biochip , could allow doctors to quickly and accurately diagnose or help tailor medications to patients according to their genetic make-up .
The researchers said the technology , which consists of shooting electrons through the center of a DNA double helix , works as well as more laborious technology now used for analyzing genetic material .
And eSensor could eventually do it in one step , on the spot .
" The puts different mutations on one chip and unequivocally gives you an answer , " said Daniel Farkas , director of clinical diagnostics at CMS , and leader of the study .
technology
This is superior to PCR-RFLP analysis -- the method currently considered to be the gold standard -- Farkas said .
PCR-RFLP analysis takes up to 48 hours to turn around results , involves several steps , and the results must be interpreted by highly trained medical technologists .
Researchers at Pasadena , California-based Clinical Micro Sensors , along with colleagues at the University of Wisconsin , tested the eSensor technology by using cells from patients who had been tested for hereditary hemochromatosis -- a disease characterized by too much iron in the body .
The disease is caused by two gene mutation in particular , which the technology picked up in the 66 patients studied .
The research team compared the eSensor results with the gold standard and found the two techniques produced the same results in every case .
Farkas and his team used hemochromatosis , which affects about 1.5 million Americans and can be fatal , as an example of why using genes to diagnose disease can be so important .
The condition is easily treated by having the patient donate blood about every four weeks , but ambiguous symptoms -- including anything from joint pain to headaches -- make diagnosis difficult .
Identifying a specific gene mutation removes the guesswork from diagnosis .
Farkas said the eSensor technology will be instrumental in detecting SNPs .
SNPs or single nucleotide polymorphisms are tiny differences among individuals that can indicate that a patient is predisposed to a certain disease , or predict how an individual will respond to a specific drug .
" Who should take what drug is based on your genetic makeup , " Farkas said .
There are other biochips available , Farkas said , " but none is as low density and low cost as ours . "
Nanogen disagrees .
The San Diego-based company makes the NanoChip , which it says in studies has proven up to 11 percent more accurate than PCR-RFLP , and 8 percent more accurate than DNA sequencing .
" We believe this is a significant advantage for Nanogen 's technology that will position the NanoChip Molecular Biology Workstation as the new standard , " said Bud Bromley , senior vice president of business development & marketing at Nanogen .
The NanoChip is also available in a handheld device and designed to examine SNPs cheaply and on the spot .
CMS hopes to have a clinical version of the instrument ready for hospital laboratories as soon as 2002 or 2003 , pending approval from the Food and Drug Administration .




Study : Joysticks Lead to Mayhem

" Harris and Klebold enjoyed playing the bloody , shoot-'em-up video game Doom , a game licensed by the U.S. military to train soldiers to effectively kill . "
So reads the introduction to a new report on the relationship between video games and violent behavior , which cites high school gunmen Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold , who went on a killing rampage last year .
The study , published in the April issue of the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , was released on the Web on Sunday , just days after the one-year anniversary of the Columbine High School shootings .
Following the shooting , Klebold and Harris -- who shot and killed 12 students and one teacher , wounded 23 others , and finally killed themselves -- were found to have been video game enthusiasts .
Researchers Craig Anderson and Karen Dill concluded in two related studies , which involved notably violent games including Mortal Kombat and Wolfenstein 3D , that playing violent video games made players , especially men , act more aggressively .
" In the short term , playing a violent video game appears to affect aggression by priming aggressive thoughts , " they reported . "
Longer-term effects are likely to be longer-lasting as well , as the player learns and practices new aggression-related scripts that become more and more accessible for use when real-life conflict situations arise . "
One of the two studies found that violent video games promoted both aggressive behavior and delinquency .
The relationship between games and aggressive behavior was stronger in men and in individuals who were already characteristically aggressive .
The second study also found that " laboratory exposure " to a graphically violent video game increased aggressive thoughts and behavior .
" In both studies , men had a more hostile view of the world than did women , " the report said .
The report said results from both studies are consistent with the " General Affective Aggression Model , " which Anderson and Dill created prior to the study for predicting aggressive behavior .
The model expects aggressive behavior after violent game play in both the short term -- subjects getting more aggressive right there in the lab -- and the long term , i.e. juvenile delinquency .
The research was supported by the Psychology Department at the University of Missouri-Columbia .
The study does n't put all the blame on video games , but points to them as a likely factor in the Columbine killings .
" Although it is impossible to know exactly what caused ( Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold to attack their own classmates and teachers , a number of factors probably were involved .
One possible contributing factor is violent video games . "
The report noted that Harris ' website included a customized version of the violent video game Doom .
The personalized game featured two shooters with extra weapons and unlimited ammunition and opponents unable to fight back , according to the findings of the Simon Wiesenthal Center , which examined the shootings as part of its campaign to raise awareness of hate-related violence .
" For a class project , Harris and Klebold made a videotape that was similar to their customized version of Doom ...
.
An investigator associated with the Wiesenthal Center said Harris and Klebold were ' playing out their game in God mode .
' "
Anderson and Dill concluded the active , learning nature of video games make them potentially more dangerous than TV and movie violence . "
As scientists , we should add new research to the currently small and imperfect literature on video game violence effects and clarify for society exactly what these risks entail . "




' Bizkit Bonds With Napster

LOS ANGELES -- Hard rock band Limp Bizkit has teamed up with controversial Internet company Napster Inc. to launch a free U.S. concert tour , and the group 's singer Monday criticized fellow artists who have accused Napster of promoting music piracy .
Napster allows users to trade and search for MP3s .
free downloadable files of musical performances
A fan can type in the name of the desired song , click on the desired version and instantly download it -- all for free .
The music industry 's trade group , the Recording Industry Association of America , sued Napster in December , charging that the San Mateo , California , company 's website promotes piracy and copyright infringement .
Rock band Metallica and rap pioneer Dr. Dre have also waded in against Napster in recent weeks .
But the controversy has washed over Limp Bizkit singer Fred Durst , who told a news conference that Napster was a great way for fans to sample an album before buying it .
" I would think the only people worried about that are people that are really worried about their bank accounts , " he said .
In the opposite corner , Metallica drummer Lars Ulrich accused Napster and several universities that allow access to it of " trafficking in stolen goods " when the band announced a copyright infringement and racketeering lawsuit against the company April 14 .
" It is ... sickening to know that our art is being traded like a commodity rather than the art that it is , " Ulrich added .
Dr. Dre demanded last week that Napster take his music off its directory , saying his copyrights were being infringed .
Durst countered that Napster was " an amazing way to market and promote music " to a massive audience .
" The Internet is here , and anybody trying to fight that , which would be people who are living by certain standards and practices of the record industry -- those are the only people who are scared and threatened , " Durst said .
Asked to comment specifically on Metallica 's stance , he replied , " I do n't think anything about what Metallica thinks . "
Napster is underwriting the cost of the tour , which Limp Bizkit manager Jeff Kwatinetz estimated at about $ 1.8 million .
Beginning in July , the band will play multiple dates at 3,000-5,000-seat venues in Chicago , Minneapolis , Detroit , Boston , New York , Dallas , Denver , San Francisco , Seattle , and Los Angeles .
Dates and venues will be announced later .
The tour coincides with the release of Limp Bizkit 's third album , Chocolate Starfish and the Hot Dog Flavored Water , due out in August .
The band 's current album Significant Other , has sold about 8 million copies worldwide .




Gadgets Drive New Jersey Man

To say Philip Torrone is a gadget freak is an understatement .
At all times the 25-year-old New York designer has at least a dozen gadgets with him .
In addition to a cell phone and a couple of PDAs , Torrone lugs around a bag stuffed with essentials , including a home-made solar recharger for his organizers and a jerry-rigged infrared amplifier to boost their feeble beams to more than 50 feet .
Torrone 's obsession recently cost him his girlfriend .
" She 's my ex because of all the gadgets I have with me all the time , " said Torrone , who lives in Hoboken , New Jersey , and is director of new media at Braincraft . "
She called me up at work and said , ' It 's either me or your odd fetish for technology .
' I said , ' Can I send you an email about it when I get home ?
' and that was that . "
" Automating the apartment kind of got to her as well , " he added .
Torrone described the lights that automatically come on , the auto cat-feeder and a litter tray with a robot arm to scoop out the cat droppings .
" Slowly she went nuts , " he said . "
But the cat likes it . "
Torrone 's interest in gadgets goes back to his childhood .
When he was a kid he dismantled the TV to see how it works .
His dad ordered him to put it back together .
He managed it , but the TV was never the same again .
More recently , Torrone took a screwdriver and soldering iron to his sports car , with markedly better success .
Torrone has outfitted his Mazda Miata with the kind of wireless Net connection that still seems beyond the technical prowess of most automakers , despite years of promises to the contrary .
Torrone 's " geek mobile " boasts full email and Web access , a wireless video-conferencing system , a voice-activated navigation computer , and an MP3 stereo .
" In a few years all this stuff will be commonplace , " Torrone said . "
But for now I have to build it myself . "
At the heart of the system is a modified laptop running Linux .
Hidden in the trunk , the machine can play hundreds of hours of digitized MP3s and is controlled by a Palm V mounted up front .
" I 'm concerned about getting pulled over by the RIAA , " Torrone joked .




Midwest Gets Green Power Online

SANTA CLARA , California -- Automated Power Exchange , a provider of e-commerce services for the electricity industry , opened the APX Illinois Market in Chicago earlier this month to facilitate the exchange of buying and selling of wholesale and commercial electricity in the region .
The service brings together a trading community of investor-owned and municipal utilities , power producers , power marketers , and large end users .
Operating in Commonwealth Edison 's northern Illinois service area , traders can deal in renewable energy -- so-called Green Tickets -- which represent the premium price buyers are willing to pay for environmentally friendly power .
Suppliers who wish to sell into the APX Green Power Market must be Registered Renewable Suppliers with the California Energy Commission .
Only energy provided from wind , solar , geothermal , biomass , landfill gas and small hydro power plants may be sold into the APX Green Power Market .
less than 30 megawatts
Buyers can purchase any blend of green and brown power , up to 100 percent of either .
Participants access the markets using special software designed for electricity trading by APX .
" This private , commercial power exchange addresses the needs of the deregulating retail and wholesale markets in Illinois , " said APX chairman Edward Cazalet . "
All buyers and sellers now have a level playing field where they can trade on the same terms with verifiable prices continuously available . "
Green power pricing is separated into two components : commodity energy , traded and scheduled hourly from generators through the electric grid to end users ; and the Green Tickets , which represent the green attribute for which generators receive and buyers pay a green premium .
Green Tickets are traded in a yearly market so buyers can lock in their green premium up to a year in advance .
Buyers purchase Green Tickets equal to their customer 's metered demand .
Sellers have Green Tickets to sell equal to their actual metered output .
Participants in the APX Illinois Market also can access markets in Ohio and Pennsylvania .
Privately held Automated Power Exchange operates Internet-based exchanges and clearinghouses for the buying and selling of electricity , energy transmission , and related products , and provides the core market and scheduling technologies and services needed to support power system administration .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : EBS




French Pols Say , ' Open It Up '

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Three socialist French MPs have proposed a law that would require the use of open standards software in all public administrations and organizations throughout France .
This law would also allow anyone to " freely develop , publish , and use compatible software , even in the case a patent or a trademark was filed for some communication standard , " according to the proposal 's text .
where
The MPs , Jean-Yves Le Daut , Christian Paul , and Pierre Cohen , say that the proposed law is based on five historical , judicial , and/or constitutional principles in the Constitution Franaise : free access to public information , retrievability of public data , national security , consumer security , and interoperability .
The " interoperability principle " is in line with the 1991 European directive on software which states that " interfaces are not protected by copyright , " that " only the expression of a computer program is protected , " and that " ideas and principles which underlie any element of a program , including those which underlie its interfaces , are not protected by copyright " .
Le Deaut , Paul , and Cohen belive that the law , if passed , can be implemented immediately because " most publishers of proprietary software , including Microsoft , have also publicly stated that they are ready to grant the French administration access to the source code of their products . "
In an interview with Libration , a major French newspaper , Olivier Ezratty , VP of marketing and communication for Microsoft France , said that Microsoft would eventually be ready to grant some independent technical authority full access to the source code of Microsoft software within government control .
Linux Magazine executive editor Robert McMillan says that , in principle , he favors the law .
" I think that it makes sense for a business to want to base itself on open standards , so why not a government ?
Nobody wants to be held in bondage to a software company , " he said .
Harvey Jacobs , of Jacobs &#038 ; Associates , a firm specializing in Internet and computer law , says that he sees no possibility of this type of law being enacted in the United States .
" It would be technological suicide and unconstitutional to decree that there is a basic human right to develop software based on another 's proprietary source code .
in the United States
Article I , Section 8 of the U.S. constitution says , " The Congress shall have the power ... to promote the progress of science and useful arts , by securing for limited times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries . "
Jacobs says that while he can understand that some companies may make the economic decision to give away their source code , governmental " taking " of valuable private property like source code should never be allowed .
He also said that the MP 's pronouncements are " riddled with logical fallacies . "
" For example , they refer to ' public data ' without defining why certain data belongs to the public , " Jacobs said . "
They make the unsupported statement that ' more competition means more choice for the consumer , thus more security .
' How does more security logically follow from more choice ? "
McMillan feels that the move toward open source software should be fueled by technical , rather than political , decisions .
" While open source software is often the best of breed , it is not technically the best in every category .
If all public institutions in France must only use open source software , what office suite will they use ?
What publishing software ?
Certainly not Quark , " he said .
But he notes that in the United States , software patent law seems to be used more and more as a weapon for large companies looking to " flummox " smaller competitors .
" It is beginning to have a stifling effect on innovation , " McMillan said . "
I do n't know if this approach will help things , but at least they 're addressing the problem . "




MS Beats Sun Copyright Claims

SEATTLE -- Software titan Microsoft has won a battle in its legal war with archrival Sun Microsystems after a federal judge ruled their fight is a contract dispute rather than a more serious copyright violation , as Sun had claimed .
Judge Ronald Whyte of the U.S. District Court in San Jose , California , issued two decisions late Monday that dismissed Sun 's allegations that Microsoft violated copyrights on Sun 's Java programming technology .
Microsoft spokesman Mark Murray said the decisions mostly reaffirmed earlier rulings by Whyte on the issue and did not amount to a dramatic development in the case .
" We are pleased that this ruling supports Microsoft 's position that this is a contract dispute between two large and sophisticated companies , and not a copyright case , " Murray said .
Sun said while the rulings knocked back its argument for copyright violations , they did not affect its claims of trademark infringement , breach of contract , and unfair competition .
Sun , which filed the case in 1997 , says Microsoft broke its licensing agreement for Java , a " write once , run anywhere " computer language that lets software run on a variety of operating systems .
Sun , a maker of powerful server computers and software , says Microsoft , fearing a threat to its Windows operating system , tried to sabotage Java 's appeal as a crossover technology by creating a version that would only run on Windows , which is used on over 80 percent of personal computers .
The rulings followed a minor victory for Microsoft in April when Whyte rejected Sun 's interpretation of its contract with Microsoft concerning updated versions of Java .
Both sides have claimed small victories in the case .
Such skirmishes are laying the ground rules for a full-blown trial .
A trial date for the case has not been set .
Shares in Sun fell 4-1/8 , or about 5 percent , to 81-1/4 in mid-afternoon trading on the Nasdaq on Tuesday .
SUNW
Microsoft fell 2 to 67-13/16 .
MSFT
The company is due on Wednesday to present its proposed remedy in the antitrust case brought against it by the U.S. Justice Department , which is seeking to split the company in two for breaking antitrust law .




Windows , Windows , Everywhere

NEW ORLEANS -- Windows .
You will n't be able to live without it if Microsoft has its way .
Even as the courts are deciding if Microsoft should be broken up , the company has no plans to let up from expanding its reach into your everyday home activities .
During presentations on the future of the Windows operating system , Microsoft executives repeatedly told the audience of engineers at WinHEC that their developers are the heart of the digital revolution .
" Every home will be a distributed computing platform , " said Carl Stork , Microsoft general manger of Windows hardware strategy group .
Stork and Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates , who described the PC as " the most empowering tool of all time , " foretold how the next versions of Windows -- Windows Millennium Edition and Whistler -- will work with a wider array of devices .
Windows Me
Windows Me , which is due out in the second half of this year , adds support for Universal Plug and Play compatible devices .
UPnP was developed by Microsoft as a way to network consumer electronics devices and kitchen appliances with PCs and each other .
Greg Sullivan , a Microsoft program manager , said that the UPnP consortium was working on making the technology compatible with Bluetooth , a wireless standard struggling to gain acceptance .
Why create an architecture for appliances that does n't require Windows ?
Microsoft sees the 45 million homes that do not currently have a PC as an opportunity to sell software and services to new devices , said Sullivan .
Sullivan said a company in the Microsoft partner booth is exhibiting a camera that runs on Linux .
He said the company had no plans to bridge its products with Sun 's Jini , however .
For the first time in the nine-year history of WinHEC , Microsoft executives spent as much time talking non-PC devices as PCs .
Working with entertainment devices that play music , digital images , and television , are keys to future versions of Windows , they said .
" PCs add value to appliances .
Entertainment industries are all going digital , and PC companies are the most knowledgeable in creating digital devices , " Stork said .
Gates demonstrated a digital camera being plugged into a Windows Me computer , which automatically previewed the images , and saved them to a website without having to create directories or use HTML .
Gates said that Whistler , due out sometime in 2001 , would allow music files to be copied directly to CD-recordable and CD-rewriteable drives , eliminating the need for specialized " ripping " software .
Gates said that digital music is now one of the top-three most used applications on PCs .
Microsoft executives also showed off a concept PC that included an integrated noise filtering microphone , digital volume controls , and proximity awareness sensors that awaken the computer when a user re-enters the room .
Monday 's breakup speculation and resulting drop in its stock price was only referred to once during the morning events , by an executive who said he noticed " some real buy options " on Monday when surfing business sites .
MSFT
Perhaps coincidentally , the company Tuesday restructured the embedded operating systems divisions into a single group .
And in an effort to alleviate consumer confusion , all non-PC devices that run a version of Windows will be labeled merely as " powered by Windows . "




Moo : Salmonella-Resistant Cows

The controversial practice of giving antibiotics to cattle apparently led to the development of salmonella resistant to the antibiotic ceftriaxone , according to a study in Thursday 's New England Journal of Medicine .
The work fuels a controversy in which some scientists believe the addition of antibiotics to animal feed and the practice of using them to treat sick livestock is breeding new generations of bacteria resistant to those antibiotics .
The newest case is alarming because ceftriaxone is one of the few antibiotics to which most bacteria have not developed a resistance .
But there are signs that resistance is emerging as more ceftriaxone is used -- and abused .
In the latest study , a group led by Paul Fey of the Nebraska Public Health Laboratory examined the case of a 12-year-old boy infected with salmonella .
The bacterium was found to be resistant to ceftriaxone and a dozen other antibiotics .
Tests revealed the same resistant strain of salmonella in local cattle , the researchers said .
The boy had apparently picked up salmonella from the family 's cattle , which had been treated with the antibiotic during an outbreak of diarrhea , the researchers said .
Precisely how the boy was infected or how many other antibiotics the cattle had been exposed to could not be determined .
" Our findings add to the accumulating body of evidence suggesting that the use of antimicrobial agents in livestock is the dominant source of resistance " in salmonella , a disease that can be fatal , they said .
The results also " illustrate the need to use antimicrobial agents prudently both in domestic animals and in humans , " the Fey team said .
" Restricting the use of certain antimicrobial agents in livestock may slow the evolution of antimicrobial resistance in salmonella and prevent the transmission of resistant strains of salmonella from livestock to humans , " they said .
and other techniques
Ceftriaxone is sold under the brand name Rocephin by Roche Laboratories , a unit of Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche Holding .




Earnings Yield a Mixed Bag

Amazon.com posted a first-quarter loss Wednesday that barely beat Wall Street expectations , as the online retailing giant nearly doubled revenue and added more than 3 million new customers .
For the three months ended March 31 , Amazon reported a pro forma net loss of $ 122 million , or 35 cents a share .
That was more than triple the same period a year ago , when Amazon lost $ 36 million , or 12 cents a share .
The consensus analyst estimates compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial expected Seattle-based Amazon.com to lose 36 cents per share .
Revenue for the most recently ended quarter climbed 95 percent to $ 574 million , up from $ 294 million a year ago .
In its previous quarter , Amazon said its losses had peaked and would narrow through the end of this year .
Investors and analysts had become increasingly impatient with the company , which has invested and spent liberally to boost its product offerings and build customer loyalty .
Shares in Amazon climbed 1-1/16 to close at 53-1/2 Wednesday .
AMZN
It announced financial results after the close of market .
Nortel Networks soared more than 10.5 percent Wednesday as analysts heaped praise on the world 's No. 2 supplier of telecom equipment for its impressive first-quarter results .
Shares in the Brampton , Ontario-based company surged 8-7/8 to 116-1/4 on a volume of 12 million shares as the company posted net income of 23 cents per share , bettering analysts ' estimates of 18 cents .
NT
The company said it expects earnings per share to grow by 30 percent in 2000 .
Growing market-demand also led Nortel to tell analysts to expect revenue growth of 30 to 35 percent this year , up from a previous estimate of 20 to 21 percent .
Nortel , which will hold its annual meeting Thursday , is expected to unveil plans to expand that area 's research and development division .
The addition to Nortel 's existing 14,000 area staff will likely boost the company 's ability to produce Internet equipment .
Expansion news will be the icing on the cake for analysts , who clearly are impressed by Nortel 's strong showing in what is traditionally a slow quarter .
TD Securities analyst Mark Lucey , who said he was blown away by Nortel 's revenue of $ 6.32 billion , raised his fiscal 2000 profit target to $ 1.38 a share from $ 1.35 , and to $ 1.78 from $ 1.70 for 2001 .
" I thought there was a typo .
This is such a hug , " said Lucey , who maintains a " buy " on the stock . "
They 're taking share -- they 're putting the boots to Lucent while they can . "
Key comparisons show that Nortel is beating rival Lucent in several areas , said Scotia Capital Markets analyst Michael Urlocker .
His research report shows Nortel with 64.4 percent growth year after year in carrier sales , versus Lucent 's 24.4 percent , and shows Nortel 's revenue growth at 47.5 percent , compared with Lucent 's 16.8 percent .




Breakup Good for MS ?

So the word is , the DOJ wants to break up Microsoft .
Not surprisingly , Microsoft is n't happy about it .
Company officers spent much of Monday complaining that any breakup proposal would be draconian .
But while Microsoft laments , a number of antitrust experts and business analysts are arguing that a breakup could well be a good thing for Microsoft , its shareholders , and consumers .
Or , at least , a better thing than a consent decree in which Microsoft agrees to curb its suspect behavior , generally considered a lighter punishment .
The thinking goes like this : If Microsoft and the government enter into a consent decree , the DOJ will have to scrutinize Microsoft 's every move for years to come , micro-managing the company 's business strategy at every turn .
The government will essentially be in the software business -- the greatest fear of Microsoft 's supporters .
If the company is broken up , however , the new units can forge ahead on their own , relatively free from federal handlers .
" Essentially , Judge Jackson would be in the shorts of Microsoft for as long as the consent decree exists , " said Glenn Manishin , an antitrust attorney at Patton Boggs in Washington , and a vocal proponent of a Microsoft breakup . "
If they break up the company , however , the court rules , then walks away . "
Theoretically , the new companies -- in this case one that develops operating systems and runs Microsoft 's Internet business , and one that develops the Office suite of applications -- would be more nimble , and would have more incentive to innovate .
Developers of Office would have to work up applications for alternative operating systems like Linux , instead of just Windows .
Once Linux and other OS 's could run the world 's most popular office applications , consumers would have the incentive to buy those OS 's .
Poof , there goes the Windows monopoly .
Thereafter , developers of Windows would have to improve their product to protect its market share .
Both companies would be smaller and more nimble , more innovative , more exciting to work for -- and potentially more lucrative to investors , some analysts argue .
The sum of a monopoly company 's parts tends to increase when those parts are broken off into separate companies .
Just look at AT&T , which divested the Baby Bell companies in the '80s , said David Smith , an analyst for the Gartner Group .
In theory , the government would n't have to do much of anything .
" The last thing they want to do is create a software business conduct division at the DOJ , " said Erik Olbeter , a senior analyst at Schwab Washington Research Group .
While a breakup can theoretically be simpler and less obtrusive than a consent decree , it could , if done poorly , be both more complex and obtrusive , analysts said .
" The devil 's in the details , " said Smith , who notes that the government will still have to set limits on the behavior of the new companies .
" It 's very important that the DOJ sets clear , limited conduct rules for what the divested companies can and can n't do , " Manishin said . "
Otherwise , they face the risk of corrupting the structural remedy . "
In other words , the DOJ might have to go through all the work of breaking the company up , then wind up micromanaging two companies anyway .
Whether the government proposes a breakup or not , it will n't likely happen soon , if at all .
Microsoft will certainly appeal any such decision , and the breakup would n't happen until the appeal is complete .
That could be years from now .
Analysts give any breakup proposal a 30 to 50 percent chance of surviving through the appeal .




Despite ' Piracy , ' CD Sales Up

At the heart of two music recording industry trials is whether digital piracy will make people stop buying CDs .
As the judge prepares to rule on the first of the lawsuits , statistics show that people are buying more albums than ever .
The world of brick-and-mortal retail looks to be in fine shape , which should be a big boost for everyone in the music business .
Soundscan sales figures -- which are measured by tracking purchasing by recording barcodes -- show that the music industry has grown about 8 percent over last year 's first quarter .
That 's good for the digital music distribution businesses -- MP3.com and Napster -- facing down the recording industry in court , in part due to fears that digital music piracy would hurt sales of CDs .
For the Recording Industry Association of America , the news could n't have come at a worse time .
" If you start looking at what MP3.com is doing , the company is providing the music from records to people who have already bought them , " said digital music lawyer Whitney Broussard . "
Even if this is illegal , what are the damages because there are n't really any lost sales ?
People still have to purchase the CDs .
That could prove damaging to the recording industry 's chances in court against Michael Robertson and MP3.com this Friday .
That lawsuit centers on whether Robertson violated copyrights when his company purchased 80,000 CDs and digitized the content on its servers .
Users could then stream music from those servers by proving they had a copy of the same CD .
As part of their case , the recording industry has to prove that this distribution had caused consumers to stop purchasing CDs .
The bright side is that Robertson is arguing that his database falls under fair use -- a statute that allows individuals to make copies of information they already own for personal use .
According to Broussard , that might make the rise in sales a moot point .
" There are certain things that are clearly non-infringing , such as a journalist quoting from a copyrighted work , " he said . "
Other things would not be fair use , such as bootlegging albums .
There is n't a bright line that determines what is and is n't fair use .
As a result , not many people run around using it as a defense unless they have to because each court and each judge can deal with the fair use issue differently . "
Still , the industry has been claiming rather loudly this year that digital piracy would hurt music retail .
Despite the fact that the issue might not come up as focal point in the lawsuit , the fact that people are purchasing CDs at a higher rate than they were in 1999 is going to have to be addressed in the court of public opinion .
Alex Walsh , the vice president of market research for the RIAA said that just because sales are up does n't mean that its time to declare that digital piracy has n't hurt the music business .
" If we grew 3 percent as an industry , maybe we could have grown twice as much , " she said . "
There is just no way to tell how much we could have lost .
There is no scientific or empirical way to determine how much more music we could have sold . "
She also said that using only one set of numbers posed problems in industry analysis since the music retail is so large and complex .
Regardless of the current litigation , the bump in music sales is a boon to retailers .
National Association of Retail Merchants president Pam Horowitz said the Soundscan numbers do a lot to back up what retailers have known for some time -- that people are still going out to the store to buy the music that they like .
NARM
" We 've learned that brick and mortar retailers are still very formidable , " she said . "
What we are seeing is that a whole lot of these little girls who are online might not be downloading music .
Instead , they are talking about N'Sync in chat rooms . "
Still , she said , the early anecdotal evidence NARM has been gathering has shown that MP3 files have been in a big factor in the college market this year .
But not enough of a factor to drive down sales .
What the lawsuits have done , she said , is given the industry a chance to take a deep breath and figure out how to make sure that overall music sales continue to climb with the help of digital distribution .
" Most retailers are interpreting these numbers in terms of an overall percentage of change , " Horowitz said . "
The change in Internet retail looks like a tidal wave from where it started , but in terms of actual dollars this is just a drop in the bucket .
We are still selling a lot of CDs in stores .
We have time to figure out what the new business models are going to be .
We just have to start now . "




Boeing Gives the Web Its Wings

NEW YORK -- Aerospace giant Boeing Co.
Thursday unveiled a new service providing airline passengers access to the Internet , television , and other news and entertainment over a high-speed , satellite-based communications network .
With partners including CNN , CNBC , Mitsubishi Electric Corp. , and Loral Skynet , Boeing said the service , called Connexion , will cost about the same as a cellular telephone call .
It will allow passengers to use laptop computers to surf the Internet , send email , or log on to any computer network .
" With Connexion by Boeing , not very far in the future you 'll be able to operate on an airplane much as you do in your home or office , " Boeing Chairman Phil Condit told reporters here .
Developed for about $ 100 million over three years , most of that to produce an onboard antenna , the service will be offered to airlines flying aircraft built by Boeing or its rival , Airbus Industrie .
Analysts see a potential market for such services that could be as big as $ 70 billion over 10 years and Condit said Seattle-based Boeing would try to capture as much of that as possible .
Condit declined to say how those revenues would be parceled out , or to characterize Boeing 's relationships with a half a dozen partners providing content or hardware .
The service will be available to North American airline customers at first , with installations beginning late next year .
Beginning in late 2003 Boeing will offer the service in Europe , over the Atlantic and Pacific oceans and then in Asia .
" Commercial information and communications are areas where we understand the customer , where we bring unique solutions no one else has the capabilities or resources to provide , " said Jim Albaugh , who heads Boeing 's space and communications group .
Albaugh hoped to announce by this summer which airlines would take the service .
Boeing declined to say how much it would cost to retrofit an existing airliner with the service , or to build it into new commercial jets , which range in price from $ 20 million to $ 200 million .
Passengers without a laptop will not have Internet access , but will be able to watch television and other video programming through the existing " dumb terminal " video screens already on many airliners , Albaugh said .
Connexion will not initially supply voice service , he added .
In addition to the antenna , Connexion will require a server and router -- powerful machines used to operate computer networks .
Boeing will also wire the aircraft to carry the service , potentially building a data port into every seat on the plane .
Seattle-based Boeing has announced plans to buy Hughes Electronics Corp. 's satellite-building business as part of its goal to become the leading player in satellite communications .




Patent Hangs Up Phone.com

The furious battle over the validity of broad technology patents has surged from the hard-wired Web to the wireless front .
The new combatants : Phone.com , which makes software that Internet-enables cell phones , and Geoworks , a company that claims to hold a patent that covers " flexible user interface technology " used on " all devices , including mobile phones , which are based on the specification and placed into the stream of commerce in the United States and Japan . "
Wireless Application Protocol
In other words , just about any wireless device hooked up to the Web .
Geoworks has busily solicited patent-licensing fees from its competitors in the wireless arena , and a number have complied , including Toshiba .
" They 've treated it pretty much as business as usual , " said Geoworks spokesman Bob Bogard , who insists the licensing terms are modest .
Phone.com , however , has n't paid up , and it filed suit in U.S. District Court on Tuesday challenging the validity of Geoworks ' patent claims .
" This lawsuit seeks to put an end to Geoworks ' repeated and unjustified accusations that virtually the entire wireless Internet industry infringes a Geoworks patent , which is directed to unrelated technology , and its threats to sue entities unwilling to succumb to its demands to take a costly and unnecessary license , " reads the opening sentence of Phone.com 's legal complaint .
Phone.com wants the judge to rule that Phone.com does n't infringe on Geoworks ' patent , and that the patent itself is invalid and unenforceable .
Uncowed , Geoworks shot off a press release Wednesday defending its patent and accusing Phone.com of self-interested public grandstanding .
" We are surprised and disappointed that Phone.com has chosen this unprofessional course of action , " Geoworks CEO Dave Grannan said in a statement . "
We created a very straightforward licensing program and announced it to the Forum in accordance with the Forum 's rules , which Phone.com helped establish .
Wireless Application Protocol
" Now it would seem that Phone.com has decided these rules no longer apply and is pursuing a lawsuit against us .
Phone.com 's management favors litigation over the widely accepted business solution of licensing . "
Phone.com counters that Geoworks ' 1994 patent " simply does not cover the wireless Internet technology , " .
No. 5,327,529
and does not even mention
The company also said that Geoworks ' announcement to the WAP Forum essentially amounted to a notification that forum members were potentially infringing upon the dubious patent , and that some licensing deals had best be forthcoming .
Geoworks , in turn , accuses Phone.com of hypocrisy .
" Phone.com has also filed a patent with the WAP Forum which covers much of the WAP architecture and is holding this over the heads of the entire industry , " said Adam de Boor , Geoworks ' chief technology officer .
It will be up to the courts to decide whose patent is bigger .
The ugly dispute is the latest in a serious of nasty battles over broad technology patents .
Amazon.com recently sued barnesandnoble.com for patent infringement , then came under siege by critics who accused Amazon of shameless patent bullying .
Sue-counter-sue patent spats have become so commonplace in the tech industry , experts have taken to coining names for the phenomenon :
" It 's what I like to disparagingly refer to as ' Mutually Assured Crap , ' " said Greg Aharonian , a patent researcher and an oft-quoted critic of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office . "
It 's like the Cold War strategy of mutually assured destruction . "




Backdoor Exposes Credit Cards

( Editor 's note : This story has been modified since its initial posting .
The original publication of this story included the password in question . )
Thousands of credit card numbers stored on e-commerce websites are available to anyone with a backdoor password , a British consulting firm has discovered .
Cerberus Information Security said on Thursday it found a secret password that allows someone connecting to a website running " Cart32 " shopping cart software to gain access to the server .
McMurtrey-Whitaker , the Springfield , Missouri firm that sells Cart32 , confirmed the backdoor -- which can reveal such data as credit card numbers , order information , and shipping addresses -- and said they would distribute a repaired version of the program next week .
Hundreds of small-to-medium websites , including Jazzworld.com , MusicWorld CD , ComputerShop.com , Wirelesstoys.com , and ChocolateVault.com , use Cart32 shopping software , which runs on Windows 95 and Windows NT machines .
" We 've been notified of it , " said Matt Humes , a technical support representative at McMurtrey-Whitaker .
Right now , Cart32 administrators can edit the executable file and manually delete the password to close the security hole . "
By Monday &#91;or&#93 ; Tuesday , there 's going to be a much easier fix to make everything completely secure , " Humes said .
Larger firms like Amazon and CDNow tend to use custom shopping cart software .
Smaller ones turn to programs like Cart32 , or competitors like WebGenie Software 's shopping cart , Open Market 's ShopSite , or Mercantec 's SoftCart .
The Cart32 password could have been inserted by a malicious McMurtrey-Whitaker employee who hoped to steal credit card numbers , or the firm could intentionally have enabled it so their technical support staff could fix customers ' problems from afar .
McMurtrey-Whitaker said that the vulnerability was included in earlier versions of Cart32 , which means that anyone who knew the password could have had access to sites ' personal information for at least a year .
Cerberus ' David Litchfield said he stumbled across Cart32 after seeing a banner ad for the product , and decided to explore its potential vulnerabilities on Wednesday evening .
" My brother and I spent about two hours looking at it , " Litchfield said . "
before we discovered the backdoor
I 'm extremely surprised that it 's in there . "
Litchfield said his eight-person security consulting firm has released eight security advisories this year , and they decided to publish the password because of the magnitude of the problem .
To gain access to customer files , an attacker could use the password to alter the shopping cart to leak information when users connect to the site .
Cerberus said it also discovered a way to change Cart32 's administrative password without knowing what the original one was .
Litchfield also found some odd information about the program 's designers embedded in the 700 KB cart32.exe file .
One example : " My Name / Bryan L. Whitaker / My Wifes Name / Melissa K. Whitaker and Kaylee . "
our baby
One expert criticized the company 's planned bug fix as unduly tardy .
" If they 're waiting until Tuesday or Wednesday to fix this problem , that 's definitely a bad idea .
It does n't take a genius to figure out what 's going to happen all weekend , " said Steve Manzuik , the moderator of Win2K Security Advice , referring to malicious hacker attacks .




Intel Nixes Chip-Tracking ID

Hoping to avoid another campaign by privacy activists , Intel has decided not to include a controversial user identification feature in its forthcoming 1.5 GHz Willamette chip .
Absent from Willamette 's design are a unique ID number and other security measures that could be used to limit piracy by tracking users , an Intel source said Wednesday .
" The decision has been made and the engineers have already been told , " said the source , who spoke on the condition of anonymity . "
The gains that it could give us for the proposed line of security features were not sufficient to overcome the bad rep it would give us . "
In January 1999 , Intel said it would wire a unique ID into each Pentium III chip , but then disabled it after privacy activists began a boycott and a prominent House Democrat denounced the plan .
An Intel management committee , after hearing from marketing , privacy , and engineering representatives who were opposed to the idea , reportedly made the decision not to include similar features in the much-anticipated Willamette chip , the source said .
Besides the serial number , the other missing features include support for hardware digital certificates -- something banking and finance firms would have preferred , the source said .
David Sobel , general counsel of the Electronic Privacy Information Center , cheered the move .
" We 've always said that certain institutional users might want it , " Sobel said . "
But it 's always been a question of user choice .
And the vast majority of individual users did not want their machines to be branded with an identifier . "
At the RSA Data Security conference in January 1999 , an Intel executive said the ID number could be used to boost security in e-commerce .
" You think about this maybe as a chat room , where unless you 're able to deliver the processor serial number , you 're not able to enter that protected chat room and providing a level of access control , " said Patrick Gelsinger , an Intel vice president .
But privacy activists saw it differently , and mounted a campaign against the ID number .
EPIC even fired off Freedom of Information Act requests to find out if the feds pressured Intel to include the ID . "
No agency has yet acknowledged any involvement .
But they have not all responded yet , " Sobel said .
The Chinese government , according to one news report , was so spooked by the ID number that it cautioned against using computers with Pentium IIIs .
Intel released a software program -- albeit a buggy one -- to disable the serial number , and then a BIOS modification .
Jason Catlett of Junkbusters says he 's glad to see that Intel decided to avoid a repeat of the controversy when Willamette is released in fall 2000 .
" I 'm not surprised , but I 'm still delighted .
It 's a chapter that I and all privacy advocates are very glad to close , " Catlett said .
" We can finally call off the boycott , " he said .




On Opening Up the Windows

NEW ORLEANS -- It 's a tough task , coming up with a solution that 's not worse than the Microsoft monopoly .
Since breaking up the company has been viewed so negatively by the stock market , how would another possible remedy -- forcing the company to open up the source code to its Windows operating system -- affect the industry ?
The developers who build Windows hardware say it could foster competition and enable them to build better products .
But at the same time , engineers at WinHEC said it could cause confusion and complicate the process .
Giving developers access to the Windows source code , one of the possible remedies that the DOJ and states ' attorneys could recommend , would give developers a greater ability to innovate , Motorola marketer Michael Tramontano said .
" It would only better allow us to tailor modems , " he said , and would enable the company to create products that were " more reliable and more robust . "
WinHEC is one of the forums that Microsoft uses to provide OS information to developers of PCs and peripherals .
Microsoft charges premiums to companies to attend workshops , license software development kits , or provide various levels of technical support .
James Horng , director of technical marketing at telecommunications company PCtel , said that Microsoft will provide the necessary information to companies that are willing to pay to partner with Microsoft .
But not all companies are treated equally .
Opening up the Windows source code could spawn a new industry of Windows service specialists , as Red Hat and Caldera have done for Linux , Horng said .
But Microsoft might not have the same incentives to provide support if it does n't have total control of the operating system , which could create headaches for developers who would then have to deal with third-party companies .
But Horng said that some censuring of Microsoft might be appropriate because " we do n't want them to become more powerful . "
Open-source development , where code is written by a community of developers instead of a single company , continues to gain popularity in government circles .
Three French lawmakers have proposed requiring the use of open-standards software in all of the country 's public administrations and organizations .
On Tuesday Microsoft said that the French proposals could threaten intellectual property rights .
Kim Akers , Microsoft 's program manager in the embedded operating systems group , said the company has taken a bad rap .
It is willing to license and share information about its operating systems , she said .
" The perception of Windows that it is all or nothing is wrong , " Akers said , adding that Microsoft is increasing the number of options for developers .
" We let developers get into the goo enough to make products without messing with reliability . "
Akers said developers prefer to work with Microsoft over open-source vendors because " Microsoft is going to be around in six to eight years . "
But David Chu , product application engineer at networking company Conexant , said having just a single vendor to deal with is efficient . "
Since they are a monopoly , you just go to one company , " he said , adding that it is always preferable to deal with the company that originated the software .
Microsoft has until May 10 to respond to the suggested sanctions , which are expected to be announced this week .
The government attorneys must file a rebuttal by May 17 , and a hearing to consider possible remedies is scheduled for May 24 .




PCs Take On VCRs and HDTV

NEW ORLEANS -- PCs may soon be the cheapest way to watch HDTV and " timeshift " television broadcasts .
At WinHEC on Wednesday , software companies Ravisent and Ligos showed off inexpensive alternatives to purchasing new televisions and dedicated boxes .
Companies including Tivo and ReplayTV have created the category of digital VCRs that enable users to pause , rewind , fast-forward , and even record broadcasts through boxes connected to the television .
PC companies are mimicking these features by adding controls to their MPEG software , which uses the CPU for playback instead of the expensive decoding chips .
Ravisent Technologies showed off its CineMaster software , which it 's licensing to computer manufacturers and video-card makers .
Ravisent CTO Michael Harris said ATI has signed on to incorporate the software with its TV tuner cards , and should have the product available by August .
He said the current version of the software makes a copy of whatever program is being watched into a temporary file that uses available disk space and requires about one gigabyte per hour of video .
Ravisent will eventually add TV program guides that enable users to schedule recording as well as picture-in-picture features .
Harris expects PC makers such as Dell and Gateway , which currently license their software DVD playback technology , to also distribute the software .
Ravisent marketing manager Lori Crenny said the software will be sold with Conexant 's $ 150 HDTV tuner card as an alternative to buying a TV , which can cost several thousand dollars .
The company said its software requires 600 MHz or faster PCs .
Ligos Technology demonstrated similar software that is being used by ATI 's All-In-Wonder TV tuner card and products from 3 dfx .
The company also is talking to set-top box manufacturers and additional video-card partners .
---
Pocket PC Phone : Siemens showed off a rough prototype of the MultiMobile , which combines the Pocket PC PDA and a mobile phone .
The device will be sold by both Siemens and Casio , and includes the Cassiopeia 's color touch-screen along with Siemens ' leading wireless GSM technology .
The unnamed product enables users to browse the Web using the wireless access protocol , or even to watch streamed videos .
It will be launched early next year in Europe , and then the United States and Japan .
---
SDMI Do n't Think So : Dave Rossum , chief scientist at audio hardware company Creative Labs , said the SDMI initiative to protect digital music copyrights only has a 50/50 chance of succeeding .
He said it 's tough to enforce something that has no apparent consumer benefit . "
People do n't mind paying artists for music , but SDMI only works to pay the labels , " he said .
Rossum also said some music publishers are releasing content with less content protection than they mutually agreed to under SDMI guidelines .
If that continues , the domino effect will take all of the teeth out of SDMI , he said .
---
IBM 's Itty-Bitty Machine : IBM was very quietly talking about doubling the capacity of its teeny 340 MB microDrive by summer .
An IBM engineer said he could not disclose how the company is packing in the extra data or provide pricing information , but he did say it would still be too costly to use in MP3 players anytime soon .




E-Biz Keeps Humming Along

Tech stocks may be taking a pounding , and dot coms may be disappearing almost as fast as they turn up , but the overall picture for e-commerce remains pretty rosy .
The most recent consumer survey reports that Web shoppers spent about $ 7 billion online in the first quarter of 2000 , about the same as they did during their holiday frenzy last year .
An additional $ 13.8 billion in phone sales and in-store shopping was generated by the Net , the survey said .
Although there was no rise in revenue between the two quarters , the survey -- conducted by Harris Interactive -- concluded that it amounts to a net gain since the phenomenon continues to grow : The total number of shoppers has increased by 15 percent since the holidays .
Items that were hot sellers during the holidays -- toys , clothing , and consumer electronics -- cooled off during the first quarter .
Auction sites , led by eBay , are the big winners so far this year , along with sites selling health and beauty products and travel services .
Growth was also steady among sites pushing personal computers , books , music , and videos .
- - -
Buying protection : Xerox confirmed Thursday that Microsoft will be taking a minority stake in ContentGuard Inc. , the copier firm 's e-commerce unit set up to protect intellectual property rights and to control piracy on the Web .
Microsoft and Xerox said they will start a new company focused on media management .
ContentGuard , which was developed at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center , provides software that gives publishers and authors more control over how books and music are distributed over the Web .
Xerox said it will retain a majority stake in ContentGuard , which was formerly known as Xerox Rights Management Group .
The exact amount of Microsoft 's investment was not disclosed .
- - -
Cleared for takeoff : Six of the world 's major airlines said Thursday that they will form a company that will operate an Internet marketplace , linking the carriers to sellers of related goods and services .
The portal will handle a projected $ 32 billion annually in purchases or sales of items like fuel , airframe , avionics and engine components , and maintenance services .
It will not cover air transportation services .
The six founders are Air France , American Airlines , British Airways , Continental Airlines , Delta Air Lines and United Airlines .
The company , as yet unnamed , will be based in the United States .
A technology partner will be selected later , a spokesman said .
- - -
Toy story : Despite adding 226,800 new customers in its latest quarter , eToys said that its fourth-quarter loss more than tripled from the same period a year ago .
The online toy retailer reported a net loss of $ 48.4 million , or 40 cents a share , for the quarter ended March 31 .
It lost $ 13.2 million over the same period in 1999 .
Excluding deferred compensation and goodwill amortization , the loss was 30 cents per share .
That beat Wall Street 's consensus forecast of a 32-cent loss .
EToys said it expects overall operating losses to significantly decrease in the coming year .
- - -
Fancy footwork : VA Linux Systems , which is in the process of acquiring Andover.Net , has had to amend the terms of that acquisition to avoid taking a big tax hit .
The original deal was worth about $ 975 million , while the new one is considerably less -- around $ 300 million .
Some of that reflects the sag in technology stocks , which have taken a beating since the original deal was announced in early February .
Under the new terms , the cash portion of the original agreement will be dropped , and Andover.Net shareholders will receive 0.425 shares of VA Linux stock .
- - -
New phones : Nokia , the world 's leading mobile phone manufacturer , will introduce three new WAP phones during its third quarter , the company said Thursday .
The 6210 dual-band cellphone , the 6250 , and 9110i communicator phone expand Nokia 's presence in a market expected to have 600 million users by 2004 .
giving data speeds of up to 43.5 kpbs
designed for the outdoors ; it 's waterproof
Reuters contributed to this report .




E3 : Got Game

LOS ANGELES -- Starting on Wednesday the land of films and celebrities will once again be invaded by videogame companies showing off the latest and greatest in PC games , console games , and hardware .
The Electronic Entertainment Expo , or E3 , is to videogames what Comdex is to hardware , or CES to consumer electronics .
Most of what will be demonstrated is likely to be released between now and Christmas .
Industry insiders think this year 's show will be dominated by the consoles , with Sony PlayStation 2 due out in a few months and Microsoft 's X-Box making its first big showing since its introduction in February .
" Usually at E3 you find that console guys steal a lot of the limelight with their announcements because they 're the mass market medium , and that 's not going to change this year , " George Chronis , executive editor of Games Business magazine , said .
" I fully expect major news coming out of PlayStation 2 , new info from Nintendo on its Dolphin console and Game Boy Advanced and more details on X-Box .
With Sega being the scrappy player they are , we can expect some new wrinkles we have n't seen before , " he said .
PlayStation 2 remains the big enigma .
All eyes will be on Sony , because they have masterfully manipulated the press and restricted all pre-show information on PlayStation 2 , " said Curt Feldman , editor in chief of Games Business .
But Scott Miller , CEO of 3 DRealms , disagrees .
" I think we 'll also see that the PlayStation 2 are n't actually as far ahead of PCs as many people originally thought , and those impressive early demos were just powerplays , " he said .
" Once you shoehorn a game into the code , developers realize trade-offs need to be made , and graphics must give way to coding reality , " Miller said .
Others expect Sega to take off .
" A big surprise will likely be the range and quality of Sega DreamCast titles , " said Mike Wilson , CEO of Gathering of Developers , a game publisher in Dallas . "
This will be the second generation of DreamCast titles , after all the developers have figured out how to work the system properly , and they 'll be featuring all the online gaming components that they 've finally figured out . "
PC games will n't be completely shoved aside , however .
There will be the hotly anticipated Diablo II from Blizzard , Deus Ex and Anachronox from Ion Storm , and Baldur 's Gate II from Interplay .
Wilson said he thinks Halo from Bungie will be a surprise hit , as will Max Payne , an action game from Finnish developer Remedy Software that 's been in development almost as long as Daitakanta .
Daitakanta was announced at E3 in 1997 and only recently started shipping .
Wilson is also especially keen on Max Payne .
" It 's a next-generation technology PC game .
I expect its engine to be the next big one on the market , like Quake technology and Unreal technology before it , " he said . "
We 're hoping to get multi-platform versions of this game started soon for a huge release next summer . "
Miller also expects 3-D engines will all be on an even keel , as opposed to a few years back when the Quake engine was far ahead of everyone else .
" This is because computing power increases so fast nowadays that no one has the time to exploit it to its full potential , it 's hard enough just keeping up with progress , " he said .
Also expected to be big are online games .
It started with Ultima Online and took off with EverQuest , often called EverCrack due to its addictive nature .
" With 200,000 people on Ultima Online and EverQuest paying $ 9.99 , that adds up to $ 22 million per year .
Over time that 's a nice business , " said Chronis . "
So it 's a residual business model that 's attractive . "




Intel 's Circuitry Defects Costly

NEW YORK -- Intel Wednesday said it would replace computer circuit boards containing a defective memory part that causes some personal computers to crash , a move that analysts said could cost the world 's largest computer chip maker hundreds of millions of dollars .
Shares of Intel were off 10-7/8 , or more than 9 percent , at 106-1/16 at the close of trade on Nasdaq , where it was the second most active issue .
INTC
Intel said the problem arose from a defective memory translator hub , or MTH , component that translates signals from SDRAM to the Intel 820 chipset .
Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory
The problem results in " system noise " that causes some systems to suddenly reset , reboot , or just stall .
In some instances it can also " corrupt , " or affect the accuracy of , a computer 's data .
Analysts said the replacement of the so-called motherboards on PCs shipped since November 1999 would dent Intel 's earnings per share by at least a couple of cents during the current quarter .
Motherboards are the computer equivalent of an automobile chassis , serving as the platform on which chips and other circuitry are mounted .
Before the news of the glitch , analysts on average were expecting Intel to earn 71 cents per share in the second quarter , according research firm First Call/Thomson Financial .
Intel on Wednesday said it was not changing its guidance .
" This is a technology black eye for Intel , " Merrill Lynch analyst Joe Osha said in a research note . "
In terms of financial impact , we believe it will amount to roughly a few hundred million dollars . "
Intel said it had no estimates of the cost of the replacement program but added that it planned to make a reserve for the costs , and that the reserve could be a material one , depending on the rate of replacements .
" We would consider something material if it approaches several hundred million " dollars , Intel spokesman Michael Sullivan said .
Sullivan said Intel shipped fewer than a million motherboards containing the chipsets in question but how many companies will ask to have them replaced is not known at present .
He also did not know how many of the motherboards were in the distribution line and would need to be replaced .
The snafu could potentially be nearly as expensive a mistake as the notorious design error that had to be corrected in Intel 's Pentium processor in 1994 , analysts said .
That write-off totaled $ 475 million .
Analysts called the motherboard episode just the latest of several operational problems Intel has been experiencing .
" I think this is another case of Intel having a lot of balls up in the air .
Management does n't have their eye on one ball anymore , " J.P. Morgan analyst Terry Ragsdale said . "
There have been numerous examples of technical screw-ups .
The problem comes when some of these screw-ups have actually shipped and they are going to lose some money . "
Last fall , Intel discovered several bugs in its 820 chipset version that employs RDRAM , another type of memory-enhancing technology produced by Rambus , and as a result delayed shipping that version .
Rambus Dynamic Random Access Memory
The delay in the chips reaching computer makers caused a headache for computer makers such as Dell Computer , which at the time was seeing growing demand for PCs that would use the 820 chipset .
Indeed , Dell warned of a fourth-quarter profit shortfall in 1999 and blamed it on the delay in the Rambus version of the 820 chipset .
The supply crunch short-changed results for two quarters at the Austin , Texas-based computer maker .
Intel said the RDRAM-based systems , now available , are not affected because they do not use the memory translator hub used in the SDRAM version .
ABN Amro analyst David Wu agreed Intel had n't been executing on detail for several months now .
" A few guys are getting their butts kicked at Intel .
They are organizing more tightly to avoid those black eyes , " Wu said .
But an Intel spokesman said that recently announced reorganizations were geared toward strategic issues and not tightening engineering operations .




Future of Fuel : Micro Fuel Cells

CLEVELAND , Ohio -- A miniature fuel cell with a volume of only five cubic millimeters -- the size of a pencil eraser -- has been developed by researchers at Case Western Reserve University .
The new fuel cell was produced using high-tech mini-fabrication techniques .
" The rash of new electronic products on the market over the last dozen years and the rush to further miniaturize these devices has driven the demand for this technology , " said Robert Savinell , director of the Ernest B. Yeager Center for Electrochemical Science and associate dean of the Case School of Engineering .
Savinell said for the commercial market , the new miniature fuel cells could be used in everything from automobiles to cellphones and computers . "
The major portion of the weight and volume of a portable computer or cell phone is the battery system .
The size of the power pack is a major limitation for portable electronic devices , " he said .
Fuel cells directly convert the chemical energy in a fuel , such as hydrogen or methanol , into electricity .
The power generation produces no emissions except water vapor .
The fuel cells can deliver more energy per volume and weight than batteries , even when including the volume and weight of the stored fuel .
Savinell is working with co-researchers C.C. Liu , the Walter R. Persons Professor of Sensor Technology at the Case School of Engineering ; Morton Litt , professor of macromolecular science at the Case School of Engineering ; Jesse Wainright , a principal researcher ; and Lauri Dudeck , an engineer .
The team uses minifabrication technology to print multiple layers of fuel cell components onto a substrate that will permit low cost , high volume production of fuel cells rather than building them by hand .
The goal is to produce fuel cells the way that integrated circuits are now manufactured .
" The concepts used in semiconductor processing make it possible to fabricate thousands or millions of devices as easily and in the same time as it takes to fabricate one component by conventional processes .
We have created inks for each of the materials needed to create the fuel cell , and discovered how to screenprint those inks onto a structure to form a functioning device , " said Savinell .
" This new miniature fuel cell ripens the conditions to someday create micro-systems -- fuel cells coupled with electronic circuitry , micro processors , sensors , and transmitters on a single silicon chip , " he said .
The prototype device uses hydrogen , safely stored in a low pressure hydride , as a fuel .
An advanced version of the fuel cell , which would use methanol as a fuel to provide far greater energy storage capability , is under development .
Savinells research is funded by $ 2.2 million in grants and contracts from the Defense Advance Research Projects Agency , an arm of the U.S. Department of Defense .
He says the military will most likely see this new micro-system technology first .
" Through technology transfer , the military could conceivably couple our fuel cell with miniature sensors that detect motion or even chemical warfare agents , add a transmitter that sends a signal to a remote receiver , and give a soldier advance warning of any threat , " said Savinell .
Cars of the future are likely to operate on fuel cells alone , or with a hybrid system using both batteries and fuel cells in which the battery provides power for acceleration and speed and the fuel cell provides energy for longer distances before refueling .
All of the major automotive manufacturers are now developing fuel cells as replacements for internal combustion engines that emit heat-trapping greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS




Are PDAs Next for Viruses ?

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Computer viruses seem to be an incurable fact of life .
But so far , like the common cold , they appear suddenly , cause a few days of work stoppage , and fade into the annals of Internet history .
But the little boogers are becoming nastier .
While Melissa only clogged up email networks , the Love Bug destroyed data .
And as we move toward a future of smart devices , cars with on-board PCs , and net-connected household appliances , perhaps the next virus will strike closer to home .
Security experts believe the day is coming when standard computers will n't be the only targets of viral attacks .
Any device that takes its operating configuration from a piece of software is susceptible to the malicious tinkering of its base code , says Scott Shreve , director of NSOC Development Network Security Technologies .
" When high-level applications are granted low-level security controls , then anything is possible , " adds Christian Smith , a network penetration engineer at Network Security Technologies .
Hackers agree .
" Virus writers are attracted to challenges , but they also want their work to have an impact , " said RadwOrk , who defines himself as a " neutral " hacker , and points out that " hacker " and " virus writer " are " a totally different species of beast . "
RadwOrk believes that as smart devices come into general use , they will definitely be hit with various plagues .
" I know there are some people who would certainly respond to the challenge of wreaking havoc on these new machines just to see what would happen , " he said .
Obviously , if every wired household will need to hire a network security consultant to keep their smart TV and intelligent toasters safe from viruses , implementing the " always connected " future will present some practical problems .
Randy Antler , senior software engineer at Discover Music , offers a cynical example .
" Imagine if you just drove off the lot of the ' Microsoft Car Dealership ' in your brand-new electric vehicle with integrated GPS , DVD player , Windows 2001 , etc. , " Antler said . "
If all of these devices are tied together by Windows 2001 , using something like VBScript , one can only imagine the mayhem that could ensue if you opened a malicious email while driving . "
The good news is that a " universal virus " -- one that could take down Palm devices , pocket PCs , your car , and your toaster all in one fell swoop -- is unlikely .
Realistically , said Antler , the only way such a " universal virus " could be constructed is if all of the devices in question implement a common interpreted language to support " extensions " to the device .
Most computer languages must be translated -- compiled -- from human readable source code into machine-readable instructions .
This limits how many computers are vulnerable to virus programs because the virus must be compiled for the particular computer that is being targeted .




Hotmail Down Due to Hole

Microsoft took its popular Hotmail service offline Wednesday morning so company technicians could fix a security hole that exposed users ' email .
Accounts at Hotmail , which bills itself as the world 's largest free email service with over 50 million subscribers , were unreachable from around 8 a.m. to noon PDT Wednesday .
Microsoft said it needed the time to fix the security vulnerability , which it learned about at 3:30 p.m. PDT Tuesday . "
We chose to disable Hotmail servers for a short amount of time in the interest of user security , " a spokeswoman said .
Users trying to log in saw a terse message that said " the machine that holds your account information is temporarily unavailable . "
" Hotmail is now fully back up and running as you may have noticed and we have implemented a fix on Hotmail servers , " the spokeswoman said .
The hole , first reported Wednesday morning by Wired News , lets attackers send malicious email that can be used to read , send , and delete messages from a person 's account .
The attack works when a Hotmail user clicks on an HTML attachment with an embedded Trojan horse .
The attachment intercepts Hotmail.com 's cookies -- which include a session key called MSPAUTH -- and forwards them to the attacker 's computer .
With the MSPAUTH key , an intruder obtains complete access to a Hotmail account , which also could include gaining access to POP email account passwords stored in Hotmail .
" Is there something weird going on with Hotmail again , or just another down period ?
When I tried to log in this morning , after clicking on OK , it said that the connection was taking me to another server which was not secure and did I want to do this ? " one reader wrote in email to Wired News . "
I kept saying ' NO , ' relogging , but the same thing happened four times .
Now , the server is down . "
Microsoft has been slow to respond to other security glitches in the past .
Last summer one problem exposed the personal email of Hotmail subscribers to prying eyes .
When that happened , Microsoft took about 12 hours to fix the security hole from the time they were first notified .
Even then , users already logged in to their accounts -- or someone else 's -- could continue to send , receive , and delete email .
This time , Microsoft took about 20 hours to fix the problem after the company 's technicians were first alerted to it .
Microsoft encountered further criticism last week , when Unix and Macintosh users applauded how they were immune from the malicious Love Bug worm .




How The Slimy Worm Works

The " Love Bug " worm , like most destructive programs , is n't exactly cutting-edge code-writing , but it 's still deadly , technically speaking .
The worm invades computers and servers via email attachments when using Microsoft Outlook , as well as via Internet Relay Chat .
" This exploits a powerful capability of Microsoft 's tools .
It 's so powerful that it can cause this kind of havoc , " said Alan Paller , director of research at the Sans Institute . "
It 's equivalent to giving guns to children . "
When users open an attachment , Microsoft Outlook allows their computers to run software automatically and invisibly , Paller said .
He believes this function should not be automatically enabled in the default setup , he said .
" When you open that attachment , nothing would happen unless you explicitly told your machine before you got this that you wanted this automatic processing done behind your back , " he said .
That 's the reason the " Love Bug " was able to spread , not because it was a state-of-the-art worm .
Experts say none of the components of the worm are new , but the person who created it combined several virus techniques to create one massive destruction tool .
" It 's large but simple , " said Elias Levy of SecurityFocus.com . "
The pieces are out there .
Anyone could have put them together . "
The " social engineering " aspects of the " Love Bug " are what make it so insidious , IBM researcher David Chess said .
First , the worm masquerades as a love letter , which recipients may have been pleased to receive earlier this morning before news of the bug spread .
Second , it adds an extra extension onto files , but the second extension often is hidden in Windows , so users are likely to think it 's just a text file .
Here 's how the " Love Bug " worms itself into your computer :
The first thing it does when executed is to save itself to three different locations : Under the system directory as MSKernel32.vbs and LOVE-LETTER-FOR-YOU.TXT.vbs , and under the Windows directory as Win32DLL.vbs , Levy said .
Then it creates several start-up commands to execute the programs when the machine restarts , he said .
The worm also modifies Internet Explorer 's start page to randomly select between four URLs at the domain www.skyinet.net that will download a binary called WIN-BUGSFIX.exe.
Levy said he has n't been able to obtain a copy of the binary to figure out what it does , but he said the binary means that the worm is dynamic and can change its behavior any time it 's changed and a new one is downloaded .




Now < i>That</i> Was a Nasty Worm

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
A new , virulent worm known as the " Love Bug " infested computer networks throughout the world beginning Wednesday night , shutting down major email servers , including those belonging to the Pentagon , the British Parliament , and NASA .
Experts say it might exceed the infamous Melissa worm in both speed and destructiveness .
By the end of Thursday , copycat worms with the names " Joke " and " VeryFunny " had also begun infiltrating email boxes .
The self-replicating worm can clog email programs and destroy MP3 and JPEG files on PCs and through connected networks .
Tens of millions of computers may have been affected , experts said .
The " Love Bug " evidently can only be spread through PCs via the Microsoft Outlook email program , and the application has to be opened for it to be activated .
The worm does not affect Macintosh , Linux , or Unix operating systems .
The worm , spread through an email visual basic script attachment with the subject header " ILOVEYOU , " began invading U.S. networks overnight after being first detected in Europe .
. vbs
Once the attachment is opened from an Outlook program , the worm is automatically sent to every email address in the program 's address book , with the same " ILOVEYOU " subject header .
With Melissa , the worm was sent only to the first 50 addresses in the address book .
Companies with branch offices in Europe and Asia first reported the arrival of the worm on their networks .
The worm caused system administrators to shut down email servers at the Space Center in Houston , Ford Motor Co. , Vodafone AirTouch , the Jet Propulsion Lab , Philips Customer Call Centers , and Ticketmaster Citysearch .
AT&#038;T Corp. shut down an e-mail system serving 145,700 employees .
The Walt Disney Company email system was down all day .
The " Love Bug " also was reportedly sent to the CIA , the General Accounting Office , and the Civil Air Patrol , when a Pentagon office inadvertently transmitted it with its daily news clippings .
" This worm spreads at an amazing speed " , said Mikko Hypponen , manager of anti-virus research at F-Secure Corporation . "
We got the first report around 9 a.m. on Thursday from Norway , and by 1 p.m. we had reports from over 20 countries . "
Internet security firm ICSA.net estimated that the worm had infected more than a million computers by 9 a.m. EDT .
The company 's website states that it will eventually cause more than $ 1 billion in damage .
" We 've got it and it killed our Intranet for two hours , " said Joe Gleason from ArtStart , a Manhattan printing production company . "
We 've got associates in London , and the ' ILOVEYOU ' email literally flooded all morning .
This thing spreads like wildfire .
It appears to be way worse than Melissa was . "
Gleason 's IT director , Jonathan Antipass , was not as concerned . "
We were getting heavily bombed with this virus , but we 've told users not to open the emails .
It does n't do anything unless you tale a peek at it , which some people oddly seem compelled to do . "
Antipass says that the worm may have passed through corporate firewalls because most are not set up to reject attachments with a .txt.vbs extension .
He also notes that the worm seems to be deleting JPEG graphic files and replacing them with copies of the . vbs virus file .
Chicago attorney Melvin Golden also says his network was infected , to the point where partners who have extensive dealings with European clients have had their computers removed from the network .
" We are now watching the emails come in at a rate of about 10 an hour .
We thought it was strange that so many of our European clients suddenly decided they loved us , " he said .
The virus is believed to have originated in the Philippines , where it was called " the Manila Killer . "
It arrives in an email with a subject line that reads ' ILOVEYOU .
' The email contains a one-line message reading , " kindly check the attached LOVELETTER coming from me " and an attachment titled LOVE-LETTER-FOR-YOU.TXT.VBS .
Once the attachment is opened the virus spawns copies of itself to everyone in the victim 's Microsoft Outlook email address book .
It also infects VBS files on the recipient 's drives as well as overwriting JPEG and local HTML files with its own code and searches for mIRC chat files .
If found , the virus inserts a custom script in it to infect other mIRC users , and then sends itself to every contact in the infected computer 's address book .
LOVE-LETTER-FOR-YOU will also try to download an BUGFIX.EXE file from four Internet sites , although what the downloaded file will then do was not immediately known .
The virus , officially called " vbs.loveletter.a " by virus company Symantec , also clogs up networks with thousands of copies of the replicated message .
European computer systems were hit hard by the virus , which shut down networks at the British Parliament for several hours .
Dow Jones reported that the worm has also affected networks in Hong Kong and Singapore , hitting investment banks and public relations firms particularly hard .
Symantec released an update to its antiviral software application , but warned computer users that the best action was simply not to open any " ILOVEYOU " messages .
The confusion over whether the worm destroys data is because the worm modifies Internet Explorer 's start page to point to a Web page that then downloads a binary called WIN-BUGSFIX.exe. The worm randomly selects between four different URLs which may cause it to react in different ways , depending on what version of the BUGSFIX it downloads .
" I 've not been able to obtain copy of the binary to figure out what it does , " said Elias Levy at SecurityFocus.com .
Lynn Burke , Elisa Batista , Kristen Philipkoski , Chris Oakes , Brad King , and Reuters contributed to this report .




Clinton Unscrambles GPS Signals

WASHINGTON -- President Clinton on Monday gave the go-ahead for letting boaters , motorists , and hikers use a satellite-navigation system with the same pinpoint accuracy as the military has long enjoyed .
Clinton ordered that at 8 p.m. , EDT on Monday night , the U.S. military stop intentionally scrambling the satellite signals used by civilians to improve the accuracy of Global Position System receivers tenfold .
The decision , based on four years of deliberations , is likely to be a boon to the GPS industry , which is already expected to double in the next three years , from $ 8 billion to more than $ 16 billion .
The possibilities for increased commercial use are wide : air , road , rail , and marine navigation , precision agriculture and mining , oil exploration , telecommunications , electronic data transfer , construction , recreation , and emergency response .
Consumers who have bought GPS receivers for boats , cars , or recreation will find that they are 10 times more accurate when the military ceases disruption of the signal beamed down from orbiting GPS satellites .
The White House said it should generate greater acceptance of the system .
" In plain English , we are unscrambling the GPS signal , " said White House science adviser Neal Lane . "
It 's rare that someone can press a button and make something you own instantly more valuable , but that 's exactly what 's going to happen today . "
" This is a very significant step forward in furthering the worldwide utility of GPS for peaceful civil , commercial , and scientific pursuits , " he said .
Emergency teams responding to a crisis will be able to determine what side of the highway they must respond to , saving precious minutes .
Currently , a GPS-based car navigation could give the location of the vehicle to within 100 yards , a problem where multiple highways run in parallel .
The signal change will eliminate these problems and possibly lead to greater consumer confidence in these devices .
Outdoor enthusiasts already use GPS but the greater accuracy will provide accuracy of 20 or better , allowing hikers , campers and hunters to navigate their way through unmarked wilderness terrain .
In fact , the White House said , the accuracy of GPS will exceed the resolution of U.S. Geological Survey topographical quad maps .
Recreational boaters will enjoy safer , more accurate navigation around sandbars and rocks .
Fishing aficionados will find more quickly a good fishing hole on lakes and rivers , and commercial lobster boats will find it easier to recover their traps .
The GPS system is a product of super-reliable atomic clocks that emerged from Nobel prize-winning physics .
It can calculate position , velocity , and time anywhere on the globe , any time of the day or night , in any kind of weather .
Artificial errors intentionally have been introduced into the satellite signals for years for national security reasons , giving the military a far more accurate system than civilians .
Lane told reporters the military would be able to scramble the signals on a regional basis should it need to do so for national security reasons .




The Stalked Need a Safety Net

Jayne Hitchcock was terrorized by cyberstalkers for almost three years before she was able to get any help .
Now , Hitchcock has turned that nightmare into a positive experience by educating law enforcement , and serving as an advocate for cyberstalking victims .
When attacks against her began in December 1996 , cyberstalking was virtually unheard of , and she had a difficult time finding help .
" There was basically nothing out there to help me , " Hitchcock said . " had no idea how to handle it . "
The police
Hitchcock inadvertently sparked a slew of cyber attacks when she blew the whistle on a literary agency that was scamming writers out of their money .
Part of a writing newsgroup , she had heard from other writers that they had submitted works for publication , sent money , but had never been published .
She posted a message asking if others had this same experience , and the attacks began .
It started with a few email bombs , then the stalkers began to forge her name online and impersonate her .
They posted her name on hundreds of sex newsgroups along with her home address and phone number , saying she was available for sex anytime .
She started receiving as many as 30 calls per day .
" They basically tried to do everything they could to ruin my life , " Hitchcock said .
Now Hitchock , as president of Women Halting Online Abuse , helps other victims of harassment get the help they need .
She advises them on what to do if they are being harassed , and works to educate law enforcement on cyberstalking .
WHOA gets about 100 reports per week , and the vast majority of them can be handled with a note to the harasser 's ISP .
But for the more serious cases , Hitchcock and her staff of 10 make calls to the police , and check in with the victims to make sure they are receiving the help that they need .
Hitchcock has lectured on online abuse over a dozen times since January , and has done one training workshop for a police department .
She goes over the basics of the Net to officers who may not be familiar with it , and gives them a sample case to work on .
The FBI has also expressed an interest in working with her .
" They 're very interested in learning more , " Hitchcock said .
Now Internet Crimes , a group that provides training for law enforcement , has enlisted her help to give workshops .
" Our director of training has worked with her before and he has given her nothing but praise , " said Greg Larson , vice president of the company . "
a former secret service agent
She is extremely well qualified . "
As for her own case , Hitchcock changed her phone number and moved to a different state .
She credits her Internet writing friends for helping track down the harassers , who were indicted in January for mail fraud and perjury , two charges related to the publishing scheme they were running .
She has filed a civil suit against them for libel , defamation of character , and harassment , among other things .
" I could not get them arrested with any charges related to the Internet because there were no laws , " Hitchcock said .
Thanks to her help , that is changing .
Hitchcock has testified in Maryland and New Hampshire , and testified in Minnesota and California to help get state cyberstalking statutes passed .
in person
in writing
And slowly but surely , she 's observed a change in the way that these crimes are handled .
" At least now law enforcement is taking it a lot more seriously , " she said . "
It 's changed a lot for the better for victims . "




Your Eyes Are Windows to MS

Barring some alarming turn of events , it 's not likely that you 'll ever lose or forget your fingerprints or eyeballs , or that someone will swipe them .
Same thing can n't be said for computer passwords .
With that in mind , Microsoft said Tuesday it would include fingerprint and/or retina scanning security widgets -- aka " biometric authentication technology " -- in future versions of its Windows operating system .
Future Windows users will , in theory , log on to their computers and verify e-commerce transactions with a swipe of the finger , the blink of an eye , or a word or two of the inimitable voice .
No more pesky passwords , and better security , Microsoft said .
" We are fully committed to supporting biometrics in Windows to provide our customers with a security platform for the next generation of computing , " Microsoft VP Tod Nielsen said in a statement .
To help further its biometric vision , the world 's biggest self-proclaimed software innovator purchased technology from I/O Software , a California-based computer security company .
I/O Software already builds biometrics tech that can operate with Windows 95 , 98 , and 2000 .
Microsoft will weave I/O Software technology directly into future versions of Windows .
Biometric scanners have been around for decades , installed in high-security military complexes and the like , but they 've never been broadly deployed in consumer products .
" By incorporating into Windows , Microsoft is making dozens of biometric devices easily accessible to millions of end users and developers , " said Samir Nanavati , a partner at consulting firm International Biometric Group , in a statement .
biometric authentication technology




A New Kind of Storytelling

Someday , perhaps , we 'll tune into E.R. and pan the set on our interactive TVs to choose our viewing angle .
That 's the promise of The New Arrival , a short immersive movie that will be unveiled on May 10 at the Cannes Film Festival .
Filmmaker Amy Talkington , Be Here Corp. , AtomFilms and Intel have created the first streaming Internet film that allows the computer to personalize their experience by navigating through a 360 degree scene .
" The 360-degree concept explodes everything you 've ever learned about movie-making and calls for new rules , new grammar , and most excitingly , a new kind of storytelling , " said Talkington , best known for her Sundance Film Festival short film Second Skin .
This is certainly a film of a different stripe : The viewer sees the world from the vantage point of a worn-out TV set being shipped off to an old-age home to join 8-track tapes and other retired technologies .
Using a Be Here add-on to Real Player , the viewer can pan the car transporting the TV , the well-wishers welcoming the TV to the home , and so on .
Not that this technology is about to displace TV sets and movie screens . "
Old media may not die , but they will have to make room for the new arrival , " Talkington said .
Beginning on May 10 , visitors to AtomFilms ' site will be able to view the film .
In addition , Sony Digital Imaging and RealNetworks are sponsoring a contest called " 360 Degrees Forward , " calling for participants to submit three-page treatments for movies using Be Here 's iVideo technology .
The best idea , as judged by AtomFilms ' visitors , will be given the financial and technical assistance to make another immersive movie .
" We 're technologists , not filmmakers , " said Ted Driscoll , Be Here 's president and founder . "
We wanted to get this technology into the hands of the creative community and see what they could do with it . "
The hardware for an immersive film is actually fairly simple : a mushroom shaped lens attached to an ordinary Betacam camera that allows it to diffract light from all directions -- much as a wide-angle camera captures a landscape .
The trick is taking the diffracted image -- a doughnut-shaped slice of action shot at 30 frames a second -- and converting it into a streaming image that Internet users can play with .
That 's accomplished with software developed by Be Here that allows video editors to create a scene that Internet users can scan by left-clicking on their mouse .
To encourage the technology 's adoption , Be Here is renting the lens and software to filmmakers for $ 2,500 a week .
It also gets a piece of any backend revenue the film creates .
The actual price for making such a film , Driscoll said , is comparable to making an independent short film , which can run anywhere from thousands to tens of thousands of dollars .
Intel , besides being an investor in Be Here , created one of the compression algorithms that Real Player uses to display the streaming video .
Be Here 's technology is equally applicable to Windows Media Player and Quicktime , Driscoll said .
The technology has already gotten a tryout in news and sports television programming .
ESPN , for example , has installed cameras that allow Internet users to experience snowboarding or attend a football draft-picking session .




Brits Launch Online Spy Network

A few weeks back , Russia 's secret service agency raised privacy watchdogs ' hackles when it admitted it could intercept and monitor all Russian Internet traffic .
On Sunday the British government acknowledged that it was building a system that could do the same thing in Great Britain , ostensibly to help catch money launderers , terrorists , pedophiles , and other criminals who do business online .
It also could help usher in an era of Orwellian surveillance , privacy advocates fear .
" They 've taken a lead from the KGB , " said Jason Catlett , president of Junkbusters , an online privacy advocacy group .
The British system , called the Government Technical Assistance Centre , will have its hub in the headquarters of the MI5 , the British secret service agency .
All of Britain 's Internet Service Providers will be connected to the GTAC through dedicated lines .
which they will have to pay for themselves
After its scheduled completion by the end of the year , the system will allow British police and secret service agents to intercept every bit of the country 's Internet traffic .
That could include email , credit card transactions , banking data -- any information exchanged between computers on the Web .
But absolutely nothing will be intercepted without a warrant , the British government insists .
" There 's no way are going to be trawling through everybody 's emails , " said a government spokeswoman . "
the security services
Every intercept will be obtained in the same way it is now : a warrant has to be signed by the secretary of state . "
It 's no different than tapping phone lines , the government insisted .
Despite the government 's assurances , legal experts warn that the system could be easily abused .
" It sounds reasonable -- catch terrorists , criminals , and so on -- but it has the potential to be particularly unreasonable , " said Brian Smith , an international e-commerce and banking attorney with the Washington-based law firm Mayer Brown & Platt .
" They will know where people are putting their money , how they 're spending , who they 're talking to . "
Security agents might be tempted to access information without a warrant , or might obtain warrants on dubious pretexts .
Moreover , Net users and business all over the world could potentially be effected by the system .
" This is not just a matter for the U.K. , " Smith said . "
They 'll be able to see everything that goes through the U.K.
A multinational company may be sending confidential information about its business plans through the U.K. , and who knows what might happen ?
Just look at how the U.S. government has used employee emails in its case against Microsoft . "
The British government 's acknowledgment of its planned system is sure to re-ignite speculation about the existence of Echelon , a supposed international electronic surveillance network .
Privacy advocates and a number of politicians are convinced that the system exists , but government officials in Europe and the United States have repeatedly denied it .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Did Cops Tab Wrong Suspects ?

UPDATE : Philippine investigators released suspect Reomel Ramones on Tuesday due to insufficient evidence .
By now , much of the world believes that a young couple in Manila is responsible creating and distributing the Love Bug worm .
But at least two computer virus experts say the police grabbed the wrong couple .
" I think they got the wrong folks , " said Fredrik Bjorck , a computer virus expert at the University of Stockholm .
Bjorck is standing by his Friday assertion that the true author of the worm , which wiped out systems worldwide since its introduction sometime Wednesday , is a 23-year-old German student named Michael who may be living in Australia .
Another computer virus expert , James Atkinson of Granite Island Group in Gloucester , Massachusetts , said he thinks there is a 23-year-old Michael involved , too .
But he believes Michael actually lives in a Manila suburb near that of Reomel Ramones , the 27-year-old whose apartment was raided earlier Monday by local police .
Ramones and his live-in , 23-year-old girlfriend , Irene de Guzman , are the main suspects right now according to the Philippine National Bureau of Investigation .
De Guzman , a photographer , was expected to turn herself in late Tuesday .
Atkinson said nothing about de Guzman suggests she could be responsible . "
The coding on her website , behavior , profile , graphics , etc. simply does n't fit the creator of the virus , " he said .
ILOVEYOU
Indeed , a home page allegedly operated by de Guzman calls into question whether this is the profile of a woman who launched 1,000 computer crashes .
" It 's really a nightmare for her and her boyfriend because they did n't do anything , " he said .
According to his research -- which took place over a four-hour period late Sunday night -- there are several people who use the nickname " Spyder . "
" They just took the first Spyder on the list , " he said .
The real Spyder and his girlfriend , he believes , are associated with a hacking group called the Acolytes .
He said the FBI has not followed up on his leads .
And in its rush to grab somebody while there was still somebody to catch , he said they grabbed the wrong people .
" The U.S. State Department and Department of Justice have been pushing since Friday morning to nail somebody in the Manila area , " he said . "
They want a warm body . "
The true culprits , Atkinson says , are a 23-year-old named Michael and his girlfriend Anjabi , who is believed to be between 15-17 years old .
Anjabi , he said , is probably the person who actually wrote the virus .




Globalstar Off to Slow Start

Globalstar Telecommunications , the second company to try its luck in the satellite phone business , reported a steeper-than-expected loss in its first three months of commercial operation .
On Monday , the mobile satellite phone service reported a net loss of $ 216 million -- or 98 cents a share -- for the first quarter .
Wall Street analysts had anticipated a loss of 80 cents a share , according to Zacks Investment Research .
Globalstar , the first company to test the market for satellite service in the wake of the ill-fated Iridium , began selling service on a limited basis in January and expanded its operating area in March .
GSTRF
For the first three months of the year , Globalstar reported revenue of $ 609,000 and recorded 550,000 minutes of billable service .
In addition , the company reported that five of its partners agreed to pre-purchase $ 19 million worth of discounted minutes of use .
The company attributed the low numbers to the fact that it did n't roll out commercial service in many important markets until March .
Globalstar only offered service in Canada and Brazil -- two of its key markets -- for a few weeks of the quarter , while service to Australia did n't start until March 30 .
" We experienced start-up challenges normal for any new service introduction , " said Bernard L. Schwartz , Globalstar chairman and chief executive officer , in a statement accompanying the release . "
But these issues have been addressed and solved , including the establishment of a consistent telephone production schedule and implementation of international roaming agreements . "
By the end of June , Globalstar said it expects to offer commercial service in 50 countries , including China , Russia , and South Africa .
In addition , the company said it plans to offer service for sending and receiving data over the Internet using its phones later this year .
Investors reacted to the earnings news by pushing up shares of Globalstar nearly 6 percent -- about 60 cents -- to $ 10.66 in late morning trading .
Globalstar stock , which peaked at $ 53 earlier this year , has fallen to as low $ 7.87 in recent weeks .
Globalstar 's treatment on Wall Street has n't been helped by the fate of its predecessor , ill-starred Iridium , which went bankrupt after failing to secure enough customers and revenue to meet its massive debt payments .
Although Globalstar spent less to build its system than Iridium , investment analysts have fretted that the company will face similar problems securing enough users to cover costs .
Globalstar , for its part , points out that the Iridium debacle has also helped its fledgling service .
In several countries , service providers are offering Iridium users promotional discounts to convert to Globalstar service .
In Brazil , Iridium customers may exchange their phone for a free Globalstar phone , paid for by the local Iridium provider .




This College Course Is a Turn-On

SAN FRANCISCO -- " OK , who 's got the guts to come up here and try to make Valerie come ? "
That 's not the usual challenge you 'll get in college classes .
But then , this is n't your usual college course .
San Francisco State University gave the world 's first university-level class on Sunday that takes an academic approach to cybersex .
The course material -- including a tour through interactive adult CD-ROM Virtual Valerie -- was a whole lot more titillating than Geometry 101 .
Instructor Mary Madden began with a historical tour through the long and convoluted connection between technology and sex .
It began in earnest in the 19th century , when many women were diagnosed with " hysterical disorders " which could only be relieved by a " hysterical paroxysm " -- in other words , an orgasm .
Weary of manually producing the healing paroxysm , doctors invented tools ranging from steam tables to primitive vibrators to help out female patients .
" After that we were off and running , " Madden says . "
Whenever a new technology emerged , we found a way to turn ourselves on . "
Thus , photography led inevitably to early pornography , cars spawned drive-ins , the adult movie industry popularized VCRs .
And , of course , although the Internet was originally created for military communications and perpetuated for academic research , it was used for sexual purposes almost from the get-go .
" At first , people were just scanning in dirty pictures from magazines and posting them to websites or newsgroups , " Madden says . "
But then they got a little more sophisticated as users realized the possibilities . "
Adult sites began beefing up binaries with video clips , 3-D images , even live video feeds .
Madden gave the class a peek at what 's out there by accessing a live video feed of an exhibitionist named " A1Sexy . "
" Stand up and show us your behind ! "
Madden types to A1Sexy , whose blurry webcam images update every few seconds .
A1Sexy obliges with a quick flash .
" There 's just tons of this out there but usually you have to pay for it , " Madden says , delighted to find a free performance .




DNA ' Bounty ' Sought on Island

Australian scientists hope the DNA of descendants of the mutinous crew of the Bounty who live on tiny , isolated Norfolk Island will give them a genetic clue to heart disease .
Researchers have begun taking DNA samples from the 900 adult descendants of the men who set Captain William Bligh adrift in a small boat after their infamous 1789 mutiny on HMS Bounty , according to the latest edition of New Scientist magazine .
Geneticists from Griffith University hope the DNA of people from the isolated island 995 miles northeast of Sydney will help them find genes which predispose people to cardiovascular disease , the magazine reported on Thursday .
" Many of the diseases I am interested in are a combination of several genes and environmental triggers , " said Lyn Griffiths , genomics research director at Griffith University in Queensland .
" Here , the population is so isolated you can reduce environmental differences so you concentrate on genetic factors , " she told New Scientist .
Griffiths said she had " a very strong candidate " gene for high blood pressure , and hoped her research also would pinpoint a gene for migraines .
" We need more evidence , which this will hopefully provide , " she said .
DNA is a kind of genetic fingerprint unique to every individual and it is also the molecule in the body that transmits hereditary characteristics from parents to children .
Between 600 and 700 Norfolk islanders trace their roots back to the mutinous crew of the Bounty .
The Bounty crew and some Tahitian women settled on Pitcairn Island halfway between Australia and South America .
Their descendants moved to Norfolk Island in 1856 .
" People of Polynesian descent tend to run a high level of cardiovascular disease , while their English background ... might contribute to additional cardiovascular disease , " Griffiths said .
" Their eating habits are decidedly Old English , with high cholesterol in the diet .
Many are keen on fried foods and additional cream , " she said .
Her team has been on the island for three months and has so far taken about 550 DNA samples .
The university has also signed an agreement with the Norfolk Islanders to share in any profits from the research .
Norfolk Island is an external Australian territory governed by a local administration .




Still Searching for Worm Culprit

So maybe it was n't Reonel Ramones after all .
The 27-year-old bank employee whose apartment was raided by Philippine police was released Tuesday for lack of evidence in connection with the " Love Bug " worm , the virus that has caused an estimated $ 10 billion in damage worldwide .
" The evidence is incomplete , " senior prosecutor Severino Gana told reporters . "
There are still diskettes which they need to evaluate . "
Ramones and his girlfriend , Irene de Guzman , were both touted Monday as the main suspects in the case .
Police said de Guzman is still being considered a suspect .
De Guzman has not yet turned herself in for questioning .
The release of Ramones comes as little surprise to some industry experts .
At least two computer experts on opposite ends of the globe said earlier the police had grabbed the wrong guy .
Technical Counterintelligence Engineer James Atkinson of Granite Island Group in Gloucester , Massachusetts , said Monday he thought the true culprits of the virus were a young couple in a Manila suburb .
Based on his analysis , he said they are two individuals associated with a Manila-based hacking group called the Acolytes .
The word stems from the Greek for " server " and is used as a term for an altar boy .
Another expert , Fredrik Bjorck of the University of Stockholm , said he believes that a 23-year-old German named Michael is the creator of the virus .
Michael , he said , may be living in Australia .
He said while Michael may have been responsible for creating the virus , it was important to " remember that it might not be his intent to distribute it . "
If caught and extradited to the United States , this will be an important point as U.S. law considers the question of a person 's intent to cause harm .
Prosecutors in the Philippines now say they are decoding a list of 10 names that were found in the source code of the " Love Bug " worm .
It is not yet clear whether one person or several people are behind those names .
In the meantime , prosecutors have until May 19 to gather more evidence against Ramones , who will have to appear before prosecutors on that day to answer preliminary charges .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Cruising NZ With Commentary

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- If Jonathan Kruse has his way , road-tripping tourists will never have to fumble with a map or a guidebook again .
Kruse has developed a way for global positioning satellites to do all the work .
Driving past a commentary way point , the Kruse system recognizes where it is and automatically starts to play the appropriate information through the vehicle 's stereo .
" You do n't need to know where you are or what direction you are going in , " Kruse said .
The idea came to Kruse , who used to do compact disc duplication , when he was working on a bilingual CD for a tour bus company .
The commentary , he said , was bland to say the least .
Kruse and his wife Melanie decided they could do better , and they drove all over New Zealand to research and develop their own commentaries .
Information about your location and its tourist attractions are meshed with evocative music and sounds , along with voice-overs about New Zealand 's past .
" Suddenly you 're transported to a campfire and the moreporks and kiwis in the background .
It 's the gold guy telling you about it , " Kruse said .
He throws in an occasional recipe for tourists who want to sample New Zealand delicacies .
Even small towns come to life under the Kruse travel guide .
" We 're aiming to fill in the gaps between the cities , " he said .
For example , drivers travelling through the small farming community of Piriaka , a town with one general store in the middle of the North Island , learn about the importance of rugby to rural New Zealand and the hero status of the national team , the All Blacks .
The segment ends with the stirring sounds of the All Blacks ' haka , the Maori war challenge to any opposing team .
Industrial Research and Technology New Zealand helped Kruse develop his travel guide system .
IRL has made it very simple for tourism operators to use simply by pushing one button , said IRL 's Neil Scott .
Two major tourism operators in New Zealand have purchased the system , Kruse said , and he has fielded inquiries from Australia and Canada .
Initially the system was aimed at tourists in New Zealand who hire cars and motor homes to tour around .
However , Kruse sees potential for any mode of transport that has clear sky above it .
" It 's perfect for the coach companies .
It 'll also work in helicopters , canal boats , any marine application . "
He 's also had interest from train companies .
" If you are driving or on any waterway , it will work . "




The Multi-National Love Bug Team

While authorities in the Philippines are busy homing in on Onel de Guzman as the prime suspect in the Love Bug case , self-styled computer sleuths across the globe say there is much more to this story .
Jean Franois Gagn , 31 , a now-unemployed computer technician-consultant from Montreal , has spent hours investigating the Love Bug trail by tracking logs of ICQ , an instant-messaging client .
His theory : It originated in Brisbane , Australia .
It was then launched from Manila and re-launched from Dar es Salaam , the capital city of East African nation Tanzania .
The Australia angle has another backer : Swedish researcher Fredrik Bjorck , a computer virus expert at the University of Stockholm .
Bjorck , who helped track down the creator of the infamous Melissa worm , says a 23-year-old German student named Michael created the virus in Australia , where he lives .
But he said Michael may not have meant for things to go this far . " is the creator of the virus , but remember that it might not be his intent to distribute it , " Bjorck said .
He
That 's where the de Guzmans come in.
Based on information contained in the source code of the worm , the accounts used to launch the virus were based in Manila , and were located at an apartment building where Irene de Guzman lives with her boyfriend , Reomel Ramones , her brother , Onel , and sister , Jocelyn .
Ramones was the first person to be fingered as a suspect , but was subsequently let go for lack of evidence .
Now the authorities think the person behind the worm is Onel , a student at AMA Computer College in Manila who submitted a thesis in February detailing how passwords could be stolen from the Internet .
This part of the story has its share of backers .
" Onel was launch pad No. 1 , that seems very certain now .
And probably helped with his sister , Jocelyn , " said Gagn .
he was
So far , details on Jocelyn de Guzman have not been forthcoming , and her involvement is unknown .
But more than one researcher has found a link to a 15-year-old girl from Tanzania named Anjabi .
Anjabi was identified on Monday by James M. Atkinson , a technical counterintelligence engineer with technical surveillance firm Granite Island Group .
Atkinson , who says he has been analyzing this case for the pure sport of it , believes Anjabi is involved with someone named Michael who lives in a Manila suburb , and believes they both belong to a Manila-based hacking group called the Acolytes .
He says Anjabi moved from Tanzania to live with her boyfriend in the Philippines about 18 months ago .
Atkinson found the couple through analyzing the executable file that was found in the four directories listed in the source code .
Those directories have since been taken down by Philippines ISP Supernet .
" This is a matter of taking big sheets of graph paper and drawing pretty pictures on it , " he said . "
You know when you track a bear out in the woods ?
I just followed the footprints . "
After digging through Usenet archives dating back eight years , ICQ registrations , ICQ logs , and IRC logs , Atkinson concluded that the virus traces back to Anjabi and her boyfriend , Michael , 23 .
He pointed out that their accounts may have been stolen , and said the truth will n't come out until officials " sit down and have a long , hard chat with them . "
Gagn used similar methods to reach his conclusion , which places Anjabi back in Tanzania .
" was localized in East Asia , and suddenly , it struck Africa , then Europe , and America .
The Love Bug
This could explain Anjabi 's link in Tanzania -- she was launch pad No. 2 , " he said .
" One thing is for sure , this was not a single launch , " said Gagn . "
Just like a fire , the spread was too quick . "




Flash Is a Gas , Gas , Gas

Not so long ago , Web designers who wanted to create fancy sites with dynamic interfaces had to take a deep breath and code their pop-up menus and glowing menu buttons in Sun 's Java .
But buggy Java engines , performance problems , and design tools geared toward programmers instead of graphic artists has prompted a mass exodus from Java to a once-obscure format originally intended for animators : Macromedia 's Flash .
These days Flash , a vector format for delivering interactive graphics over low bandwidths , is turning up all over the place .
For the first time , entire e-commerce sites are being created in it , including those for big names such as Coca Cola , Sean " Puffy " Comb 's BadBoy conglomerate , and Volkswagen .
Another sign of its increasing popularity is the number of banner ads produced in Flash .
" That says a lot about the reach of the Flash plug-in , " said Taylor , an interface designer with Red Industries , a San Francisco design firm .
" Flash is everything Java applets were supposed to be , " said Phillip Torrone , director of new media at BrainCraft , a New York Web development shop . "
People are putting it in cars and cell phones .
I think it 's the way to display ads in Times Square or read books in an e-book .
It 's an exciting time to be a Flash developer . "
Torrone , a Macromedia partner who sits on the Flash advisory board , is building the first online bank entirely in Flash .
" You could n't do a whole bank in Java , " Torrone said . "
It 's too unstable .
There are too many different implementations on different browsers and different platforms .
It has lower penetration and there are security issues like malicious Java applets .
Flash is almost foolproof .
It 's just graphics .
There 's no key to the door . "
When it comes to building user interfaces , Flash 's big advantage over Java is its ease of use , said Jeremy Clark , associate product manager for Flash at Macromedia .
" People can pick it up in a couple of days and just start playing with it , " he said . "
You do n't have to be a programmer . "
" It 's a beautiful tool , " agreed Florian Schmitt , co-designer of the critically acclaimed Soulbath site . "
It 's very easy to learn and you can do so much with it .
It 's a little plug-in and very reliable . "
" Java does a lot of things but there 's a steep learning curve , " said Phil Stephenson , who used Flash to create a room planner while at InterNoded that lets shoppers see if the sofa they are interested in will fit in their living room .




Cisco Earnings on the Money

Cisco Systems Tuesday reported third-quarter operating profits that rose 58 percent while sales surged 55 percent as the biggest maker of data networking equipment sold more Internet gear to businesses , telephone and cable companies , and Internet service providers .
For the period ended April 29 , Cisco said it had earnings before one-time items of $ 1.03 billion , or 14 cents a share , up from $ 649 million , or 9 cents , a year ago .
CSCO
Sales rose to $ 4.92 billion from $ 3.17 billion .
The results topped analyst forecasts of 13 cents a share , according to First Call/Thomson Financial .
Even though Cisco stock fell 7 percent on Monday amid investor concern over its valuation and acquisition strategy , the shares have soared 131 percent in the last 12 months , more than double the gain of the Dow Jones Communications Technology Index .
Cisco is benefiting from the rapid roll-out of the Internet and its embrace by governments and businesses .
Including one-time items , Cisco said it had net income of $ 662 million , or 9 cents a share , compared with $ 636 million , or 9 cents a share , in the year-ago period .
This was the ninth quarter in a row the company has reported operating profits that topped analyst forecasts by precisely one penny .
Cisco stock ended the day unchanged at 62-3/4 .
The company 's shares had taken a beating Monday , however , following a bearish report in Barron 's that questioned its high market capitalization .




Windows-Haters Crow Over Worm

While most of the world convalesces from the Love Bug worm , people running alternatives to Windows are smugly congratulating themselves for knowing better than to use Microsoft software .
The Love Bug and its variants over the last few days have melted down millions of computers worldwide and caused billions of dollars in damages .
But clever users running Macs , the BeOS , and various flavors of Unix happily gloat that they were immune to the attacks .
Many of these users gleefully pointed out on message boards and mailing lists that the worm did n't do damage to all computer users ; it only harmed Windows users who employ Microsoft 's Outlook and Outlook Express email software .
" The point is that the root cause of these mass virus proliferations is a pathetically insecure email client foisted upon the public by a certain evil monopoly whose name I need not mention , " wrote Seldolivaw Ssov in an email . "
Hey , this * only* happens when you use Outlook and Outlook Express ! "
" I think the reason it spread is because so many people use Outlook Express , " said Jessie Liu , an analyst with market research firm Dataquest . "
And the second reason is , people need to get more education about how to protect themselves from the network . "
According to Dataquest , approximately 95 percent of the world 's PCs are Intel-compatible , and the vast majority run Windows in one flavor or another .
As for Outlook and Outlook Express , Dataquest estimates 60 percent of business users are running those products , a number that is likely to increase as more and more IT managers dump Lotus Notes in favor of Microsoft products , Liu said .




Cybersex Visits the Ivory Tower

SAN FRANCISCO -- It 's back to the three Rs at San Francisco State University : reading , ' riting and , of course , raunchy cybersex .
Beginning Sunday , SFSU will sponsor a university-level course on cybersex .
Instructor Mary Madden said the two-day seminar will address everything from images of cybersex in films like Sleeper to the basics of " hot chat . "
" The time has come for cybersexuality to be studied on an academic level , " she said . "
It 's a medium that 's just emerging so far , but it 's come a long way in just a few years . "
She also wants to show how adult sites have pushed the development of online technologies and continue to champion new tech-like Web-controlled sex toys .
" As technologies emerge , they 're being pushed along by pornographers , " she said . "
Live Web video , interactive chat -- they got their start at adult sites , and once perfected there these technologies began to be a possibility for other kinds of sites . "
Anyone can sign up for the extended-learning course , though it does n't count for credit toward a degree.
" A degree in cybersexuality -- that 's a few years away , " Madden said . "
Right now we just want to turn people on to what 's technologically out there and see the possibilities for the future . "
The course is $ 100 and will be offered May 7 and 14 , as well as during the summer .




Dinos Too Cool for School

LOS ANGELES -- Dinosaur-crazy execs at Disney wanted a new adventure film , but how do you top the Jurassic Park films for special effects ?
That was the dilemma facing Disney animators when they began pulling together plans for Dinosaur , an epic about what happened when a calamitous meteor shower smacked into the earth and snuffed out all the dinosaurs .
What they 've dreamed up for the May 19 release is a combination of digitized real-life and dreamed-up images that blurs the boundaries between live-action and animated films .
" This film is 87 minutes of special effects , " said Fred Tio , Walt Disney Motion Picture Group 's senior vice president of marketing . "
The characters are computer-animated and all of their environment is live action , " said Tio .
To create the backdrop for the movie , Disney animators traveled to spots around the world , ranging from Africa to Hawaii to the Los Angeles Arboretum .
There they took digital pictures of landscapes and vegetation from every conceivable perspective .
They brought those images back to a new , four-story computer graphics complex near the Burbank Airport to insert rough animations into each scene .
Then they traveled back to the original spots to catch the lighting , shadows and other details to make the integration of animation and background as seamless as possible .
The special effects do n't come cheap either : at $ 130 million , Dinosaur is the most expensive animated film ever made , and dwarfs the roughly $ 70 million Disney spent on Toy Story .
The film continues a long Disney tradition of combining live-action and animated footage , from " Mary Poppins to its Wide World of Disney television series to Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? "
" In an interesting way , it 's really pushing Walt 's vision of what he wanted Walt Disney to be , " Tio said .
The scenes are realistic enough that you might want to think twice about taking your preschooler to it .
Disney 's first PG-rated animated film has enough carnivores-feasting-on-gentle-plant-eaters stuff to make some folks squeamish .
That 's partly by design .
" They 're really after the young teen market , " said Robert Bucksbaum , president of Reel Source , a box office market research firm . "
The younger kids will want to come , too , because their older peers are watching and there 's a ' cool ' factor . "
Bucksbaum predicts that the film will gross around $ 215 million , which would make it the fourth most successful animated film of all time after three other Disney movies , The Lion King , Toy Story II , and Aladdin .
" The film is a slam-dunk , " he said . "
Dinosaurs are one of the things kids care most about , along with bugs .
A lot of people are also going to come just to see what $ 130 million of animation can buy . "
Disney has clearly also spent big on the Dinosaur website .
It features the movie soundtrack playing continuously , plenty of flash animation for viewing dinosaurs from every conceivable angle , " dino cards " that kids can send to their friends and , of course , the movie trailer .
Soon-to-launch interactive sections will focus on the making of the movie , allowing users to animate a brachiosaur foot , construct a scene , or use a " location scouting " tool that simulates the process animators used to decide where to shoot backdrops .
Dinosaur is the first of what could be a flood of films over the next few years that blend reality and digital animation .
Sony , for example , is planning Final Fantasy , the Movie , which reportedly will feature real-life and digitally animated characters that are impossible to tell apart .




Newspapers Link to the Future

When the Post and Courier newspaper in Charleston , South Carolina , went to press on Monday , it became the first printed paper to include hyperlinks in its stories .
These are not just printed URLs , but rather tiny barcodes embedded within news stories and advertisements .
Readers scan the barcodes , which contain URLs , with a Post and Courier-provided laser pen attached to a PC with Internet access and they are taken directly to the specific websites .
" I think newspapers ought to be doing all we can to get involved in new media , " said Larry Tarleton , the newspaper 's assistant publisher . "
This new technology is a great way to connect the reader of the printed word with the Internet .
And it gives the newspaper the ability to get readers as much information as we possibly can . "
The technology developed by GoCode is an experiment for the newspaper and is currently being used by only about 100 people .
The Post and Courier has a circulation of 110,000 .
GoCode chairman Tom Pickens said the technology is an attempt to help bridge the gap between newspapers and online media by creating a seamless network of information .
" We use the paper to get people around the Internet because people have a trusted relationship with the editors and reporters at the papers they read , " he said . "
People see an article in the paper and they clip it out to use later at their computers .
This technology is going help make this less painful for the readers to do that . "
This technology can help print versions of newspapers maintain viability while also driving traffic to the Web -- a problem that newspapers have been dealing with for several years .
Overall newspaper revenue in the United States for 1999 reached $ 58 billion with classified ads making up about $ 19 billion of that , said Kevin McCourt , director of online classified advertising for the Newspaper Association of America .
While classified advertising has continued to grow over the past several years , for a while it looked like online businesses such as monster.com that aggregate employment listings might cut into print media 's revenue stream .
So newspaper groups began forming large classified cooperatives such as Classified Ventures to aggregate advertisements from large papers into one giant searchable pool .
With this new technology , print advertisements can be sold for more money and provide more value to the consumers .
" Readers expect their newspaper to help link them to the Internet , but they do n't expect that their multimedia sites are going to help them link to the print papers , " said McCourt . "
If we can make it easier to get our readers from the print classified ads to the online ads , we 've made it easier for our readers to not go somewhere else to get the same information . "
While maintaining the business operations of a newspaper is important , Craig Branson of the American Society of Newspaper Editors said that using technology to maintain local flavor is what counts .
" It 's obvious to me that the newspaper in 20 years will look much different than the newspaper now .
Whether it looks like the barcodes that are coming out today or electronic paper in the future , people are always going to be seeking the news about their local communities .
And the great thing about this technology is that it helps local papers bring local news and information to people in a richer way . "




MyMP3.com Nixes Major Labels

MP3.com on Wednesday halted access to major-label music for users of the company 's controversial my.mp3.com service as MP3.com and the recording industry continued to try to settle the industry 's copyright infringement lawsuit against the company .
My.mp3.com allows registered users to access music from the company 's database , which translates the songs into a library of MP3s .
Before users can have the music streamed to them , they have to load a physical CD that contains the album into their computer .
Users signed up for the service still will be able to listen to over 400,000 songs from independent artists and smaller labels in the library , just not those from major labels .
The move comes after the Recording Industry Association of America won its court battle against the company last month .
U.S. District Court Judge Jed S. Rakoff ruled that the digital music company 's creation of a database of 45,000 CDs infringed on the labels ' copyrights .
" MP3.com is vigorously in pursuit of both a settlement of the copyright infringement claims and an ongoing licensing agreement with all the major labels , " MP3.com CEO Michael Robertson wrote in an open letter to my.mp3.com subscribers released on the company 's website Wednesday .
One industry watcher called the move a potential negotiating point for the suit .
" There has n't been an injunction issued by the judge so MP3.com didnt have to do this , but I can n't imagine this is anything other than a negotiating point , " said Mary Rasenberger , an Internet entertainment lawyer with Morrison & Foerster in New York . "
MP3.com had no leg to stand on , and whatever you think politically about this service , under the current law they do n't have a good case even on appeal . "
In the suit , the recording industry had asked for damages that could have put the company out of business .
Copyright law states that those damages fall between $ 750 and $ 30,000 per copyright infringement .
With 45,000 CDs in the database and 12 songs per CD , that puts likely damages in the neighborhood of $ 800 million at the very minimum , although the penalties could reach into the billions .
Recent talks have put the settlement figure around $ 100 million , which would allow Robertson 's company to continue to operate .
With $ 370 million in the bank and a cash-burn rate of about $ 3 million per quarter , MP3.com is financially sound .
Robertson also said that since my.mp3.com service was free , even if the service is shut down , the company would not be losing any revenue .
" This is a groundbreaking time for digital music , copyright law and the Internet in general .
You have my word that MP3.com will act responsibly , work tirelessly  and remain a beacon of progress in the digital music space , " he wrote in the open letter .




Worm Suspect : ' I Did n't Mean It '

MANILA , Philippines -- A Filipino computer school dropout under investigation over the " Love Bug " virus may have mistakenly transmitted the crippling cyber-worm but did not mean any harm , his lawyer said on Thursday .
Onel de Guzman , a 24-year-old former student of AMA Computer College in the Philippine capital , held a news conference with his lawyer on Thursday after investigators summoned him and his sister Irene for questioning over the virus .
AMACC
Officials said Irene de Guzman owns a flat which was searched on Monday by police trying to trace the source of the virus that crippled computers around the world and caused billions of dollars damage .
De Guzman dropped out of AMACC after submitting a thesis describing a program similar to the destructive " Love Bug " virus .
He was asked at the news conference if he might have mistakenly transmitted the " Love Bug " virus , which crippled computers in the United States , Great Britain , and other countries and is estimated to have cost $ 7 billion in damages .
" It is possible , " his lawyer Rolando Quimbo said , answering for de Guzman .
On Wednesday , AMACC distributed copies of de Guzman 's thesis proposal describing a programme designed to steal passwords and gain free access to the Internet .
Asked if his client was unaware of the potential destructive capacity of the program , Quimbo said : " I would say he was not aware and he did not even know that any act on his part would really come to the results that had been reported . "
The National Bureau of Investigation said earlier that it had summoned de Guzman and his sister for questioning on Thursday over the virus .
NBI
But Quimbo said he had advised them not to comply since no court order had been issued for them to appear .
" No subpoena or warrant of arrest has been issued , so why should they give themselves up ? "
Quimbo said .
NBI officials were not available for comment .
The school said de Guzman had excelled in his computer courses but dropped out after his thesis proposal was rejected as unethical .
School officials have not heard from him since .
" The Internet is supposed to be educational so it should be free , " de Guzman 's lawyer quoted him as saying .
Quimbo said de Guzman was fond of computers and usually spent an average of four to five hours every time he went online .
De Guzman could not recall where he was on the days the virus first spread last week .
De Guzman , whose whispered answers to questions from reporters were mostly translated by his lawyer , said he was afraid because his name had been thrust into the limelight .
The NBI said they had followed up clues from data retrieved from the virus program and via two Philippine e-mail addresses through which the " Love Bug " penetrated the Internet .
Analysts in New York told Reuters that de Guzman 's proposed " E-mail Sender Trojan " was similar to the " Love Bug " virus .
This week , the NBI arrested Reonel Ramones , a 27-year-old bank employee who lives with de Guzman 's sister , and later released him .
Ramones is due to face charges on May 19 .




Napster Users Get the Boot

Napster on Wednesday blocked access to its software for hundreds of thousands of users the heavy-metal band Metallica claims is offering its music for illegal trade .
The move , affecting 317,377 people , may prompt future legal battles between the band and its fans .
" Napster has taken extraordinary steps to comply with Metallica 's demands to block hundreds of thousands of its fans from using the Napster system .
Napster has always stated that it would act in response to notice from copyright holders and it has lived up to that commitment in good faith , " said Napster lawyer Laurence Pulgram .
Users who sign on to their Napster accounts receive a message saying they are being denied access to the file-sharing program because they have been accused of illegally swapping files .
Those who have been blocked will n't have an easy time regaining access to the service .
According to a release posted on the Napster website , users who claim to have been unfairly targeted can file a " counter-notice , " which essentially challenges the validity of their dismissal from the system .
According to rules outlined in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act , Metallica then has 10 working days to take legal action against the user .
If no action is taken , the user 's access to the Napster application will be reinstalled .
" The problem with counter-notice is that you have to stand up and identify yourself by putting your name and address up , " said Fred Von Lohmnann , a copyright lawyer with Morrison & Forester . "
That makes it much easier for Metallica to find you .
And I 'd hate to be the first guy to stand up and have the band decide to make an example of me . "
Users who do n't want to make themselves known and instead try to register for a new account are faced with technical challenges that could perplex novice users , Von Lohmann said .
Reinstalling the Napster software requires more than deleting the cookie file and creating a new account , he said .
Von Lohmann was unaware of any effective way of getting around this .
Metallica sued Napster last month , charging that the company encourages piracy by enabling and allowing its users to trade copyrighted songs through its servers .
The Recording Industry Association of America filed a similar lawsuit against the company in December , claiming the application had created a safe haven for piracy .
Napster unsuccessfully requested that the court dismiss that suit since the company considers itself an ISP and therefore exempt from liability under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act .
A federal judge refused to dismiss the case , in part because Napster had not posted and enforced its policy on banning access to those who have violated copyrights .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Call it Slash-and-Burn.org

Thursday just was n't a good day for geek-culture destination Slashdot .
First came the news that Microsoft ordered Slashdot to delete discussions of one of the company 's security products .
Just as angry Linux users were furiously lashing out at the nastygram from Redmond 's legal department , a distributed denial of service attack hit Slashdot , taking it intermittently offline for a few hours .
" About 400 readers weighed in over the first 30 minutes .
Then we got hit by a DDOS , " wrote Slashdot founder Rob Malda in email to Wired News .
Slashdot staffers initially did n't know what the problem was .
At noon EDT , Robin Miller , the editor in chief of Andover.net -- which owns Slashdot -- said he thought the network outage was due to a recent change in servers .
By 4:30 p.m. , engineers had identified it as a denial of service attack .
Malda said he could n't provide details , " and we 're still cleaning up , " he said .
Discussion then turned back to the first threat Slashdot received : The lawyer letter from Microsoft .
Miller said he has not deleted the 11 messages that Microsoft claims are illegal under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act , and is waiting to hear from legal counsel and readers .
DMCA
The response from Slashdot regulars was fast and furious .
In the first hour , hundreds of readers weighed in , many condemning Microsoft 's action as another example of the company 's desire to crush free-wheeling discussion in general , and the Linux community in particular .
" No matter what Microsoft threatens , no matter what they say , do not give in to them .
This is not because it is Microsoft , but because free speech is far too important , especially on a forum such as Slashdot .
Give them hell , " wrote one respondent .
" Under the provisions of the DMCA , we expect that having been duly notified of this case of blatant copyright violation , Andover will remove the above referenced comments from its servers , " says the email from Microsoft 's J.K. Weston .
The letter is particularly galling to Slashdotters since it includes a generous helping of everything they love to hate : Microsoft , lawyers , and the DMCA , which the motion picture industry has already used in one prominent lawsuit to try to stamp out a DVD-descrambling utility .
Microsoft is concerned about a Slashdot thread from May 2 that talks about the company 's proprietary extensions to the Kerberos security protocol , which was originally designed at MIT in the 1980s and has been adopted by the Internet Engineering Task Force as an open standard .
Microsoft Kerberos as used in Windows 2000 is partially incompatible with the rest of the computing world .
As if that were n't offensive enough , to read Microsoft 's own Kerberos specification , developers had to run an .exe file with a confidential license agreement included .
That kind of hiding-technical-information approach did n't sit well with members of the Slashdot community , which quickly posted ways to download the specification and bypass the restrictive license agreement .
Microsoft was n't amused .
It accused Slashdot of " unauthorized reproductions of Microsoft 's copyrighted work .
...
In addition , some comments include links to unauthorized reproductions of the specification , and some comments contain instructions on how to circumvent the End User License Agreement that is presented as part of the download for accessing the specification . "




MS Proposes Own Remedies

Microsoft will n't be broken up without a fight .
The Redmond , Washington software maker proposed restrictions on its business practices Wednesday , asking the court to reject a government plan to divide the software giant in two to curb its monopoly power .
The company said it would allow computer manufacturers to drop Microsoft 's Internet Explorer desktop icon , and also promised to prominently feature any software , including from Microsoft rivals , on the Windows desktop .
In addition , Microsoft said it would offer equal contracts to computer makers , regardless of whether they agreed to support competitors ' software .
It would also provide equal access to technology that would allow any software maker , including the company 's competitors , to easily write programs for Windows .
District Court Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson had ordered Microsoft to submit its own plan after ruling April 3 that the company broke U.S. antitrust law by abusing its monopoly in operating systems for personal computers .
Microsoft , which has insisted it followed the law and promised to vigorously appeal Jackson 's findings , said if the judge insisted on considering the breakup plan then further hearings should be held , starting in December .
The company said the trial had failed to find that there would be greater competition for operating systems in the absence of Microsoft 's conduct .
" The government 's adventurous request to split Microsoft into two companies should be rejected as a matter of law , " Microsoft submitted to the judge .
The legal brief reiterates themes company executives have put forth in the last month : A breakup will harm consumers , stifle innovation , and slam the brakes on future software development in all areas at Microsoft .
" Even without the extreme breakup proposal , many elements of the government 's proposed regulations are unwarranted , outside the scope of this case , and very damaging to consumers , " Gates said . "
The government 's proposals would take away Microsoft 's property by forcing us to disclose the source code for our products , even though Microsoft spent hundreds of millions of dollars to develop these products .
The government also seeks to interfere with the design of Microsoft 's products . "
Added CEO Steven Ballmer : " The government 's proposals really represent government regulation of software design and an unwarranted taking of Microsoft 's intellectual property . "
Among Microsoft 's remedies were the following points , according to a media release issued by the company :
Microsoft would be required to allow computer manufacturers to delete the Internet Explorer icon from the Windows desktop and Start menu , offer their own Internet sign-up process in the initial Windows boot sequence , display icons for non-Microsoft platform software products on the Windows desktop , and configure non-Microsoft Web browsing software as the default browser ; Microsoft would not be allowed to deny any independent software developer timely and complete access to the technical information Microsoft makes available to the software development community at large .
Microsoft would be enjoined from entering into contracts to promote any product or service through Windows in exchange for the other party agreeing to limit distribution of non-Microsoft platform software ; Microsoft would not withhold the release of any software product designed to run on a non-Microsoft platform that is ready for commercial release in order to urge the vendor of the platform to limit the development , manufacture , distribution or promotion of a platform software product that competes with Microsoft ; Whenever Microsoft releases a major Windows operating system such as Windows 95 or Windows 98 , the company would be required to make the predecessor operating system available to computer manufacturers at a royalty no higher than the existing royalty .
Under Microsoft 's proposal , the company would pay the attorneys ' fees and other costs of the 19 plaintiff states that were party to the lawsuit .
This is Microsoft 's first non-defensive stance since Jackson ruled that Microsoft was a recidivist monopolist .
When the Justice Department and state attorneys general responded to Jackson 's decision by urging him to split Microsoft into two companies , that defense grew more frantic . "
This company will not be broken up , " Ballmer said two weeks ago . "
Microsoft will continue to move forward . "
Not if lawyers at the Department of Justice 's antitrust division have their way .
Not only would their plan break up the company into operating system and applications software components , it would impose extraordinarily strict regulations on what Microsoft can do for the next few years .
The proposed remedy would limit what discounts Microsoft can offer , create a new antitrust bureaucracy inside the company , and provide for day-to-day oversight over software development operations .
During a speech Tuesday at the University of California at Berkeley 's business school , the Justice Department 's top antitrust official described the proposal as an appropriate punishment for antitrust wrongdoing .
" A separate applications company would have the incentive to develop the best possible office suite , not only for Windows , but also for other computing platforms like the Apple and Linux operating systems , " assistant attorney general Joel Klein said in prepared remarks .
" Indeed , much like the browser was in 1995 , before Microsoft commenced its illegal campaign , Office has the very real potential to be a cross-platform middleware threat to the dominance of the Windows monopoly .
" Now , there are some who are suggesting that the reorganization will result in a loss of efficiency currently generated by the coexistence of the operating system business and the applications business under one roof .
That argument is wrong as a matter of fact , and wrong as a matter of history as well , " Klein said .
Jackson has set a May 24 date for oral arguments on the proposed penalty , though Microsoft has signaled it may want more time to prepare .




Ultra-Wideband on Its Way ?

WASHINGTON -- Federal regulators took a step toward approving an innovative wireless technology known as ultra-wideband Wednesday but acknowledged concerns it could interfere with some key existing technologies such as the global positioning system .
GPS
The Federal Communications Commission unanimously backed a proposal to consider ultra-wideband for operation on an unlicensed basis and gave until October 30 for interested parties to submit test results .
As its name suggests , ultra-wideband uses a broad swath of the radio spectrum but in millions of pulses of low-powered emissions per second .
The technology has the potential to support an array of new uses from radar imaging of objects buried in the ground or behind walls to high-speed data transfer over short distances .
Huntsville , Alabama-based Time Domain Corp. received an FCC waiver in June last year to sell a limited number of its RadarVision units to police and emergency units to evaluate their ability to locate criminals behind walls or find survivors in an earthquake .
But the aviation community has expressed concern that ultra-wideband could interfere with the low-powered signals emitted by the GPS satellite system .
GPS , with its ability to precisely fix location and time , is increasingly being incorporated into efforts to safely squeeze more aircraft into the crowded U.S. air route system .
The Air Travelers Association said the FCC had put ultra-wideband on a fast track in response to an extraordinary lobbying effort on behalf of the new technology .
" This rush to judgment could be a potential disaster for airline safety , " said association president David Stempler .
FCC Chairman William Kennard said Wednesday 's action would allow the agency to determine where it could be safely used for the benefit of the American public .
" Ultra-wideband is a promising , spectrum-efficient technology that could provide tremendous benefits for public safety and for persons seeking broadband Internet access , " Kennard said in a statement .




Sega Owners Eye Sony Games

Lo , Sega Dreamcast owners : Thou need no longer covet thy neighbor 's Sony PlayStation games .
Soon you can play them , too .
A new line of software emulators previewed Thursday will allow Dreamcast owners to play hundreds of titles originally written for the PlayStation .
Each of four emulators , known collectively as bleem ! for Dreamcast , can run 100 different PlayStation games on the Sega console .
The maker , Bleem Inc. , is already embroiled in legal battles with Sony over software that allows PlayStation titles to run on PCs .
More courtroom wrangling can probably be expected following Thursday 's announcement .
Bleem plans to release the four game backs -- selling at $ 20 a pop -- sometime this summer .
Meanwhile , Sony is reportedly close to announcing that its answer to the Dreamcast -- its long-awaited PlayStation2 console -- will be available in Europe and the United States on Oct. 26 .
- - -
IBM bulks up : Big Blue , moving to challenge Sun Microsystems in its core computer market , unveiled three new computers Thursday designed for running online businesses .
The servers , which use performance-boosting , copper-chip technology , are built to carry out basic website tasks such as e-commerce and traffic management , IBM said .
This represents the boldest move yet by the world 's largest computer maker to join the Internet party , to which it was more than fashionably late .
IBM said the selling point for the new RS/6000 machines -- the M80 , F80 , and H80 -- was the use of copper-chip technology , which is said to deliver better performance at a lower cost than rivals ' systems .
Sun currently dominates the market for mid-range computers , defined by market researchers as machines costing between $ 100,000 and $ 1 million .
- - -
Virtual everything : Intel said Thursday that it plans to spend $ 200 million over the next two years building an Internet media business that will allow customers to transmit everything from movies to conferences to online training over the Internet .
The plan is the latest effort by the world 's biggest chipmaker to broaden sales beyond the microprocessors that account for 80 percent of its revenue .
Intel Internet Media Services will turn the Web into a conveyance for transmitting audio and video , which might include conferences , movies , online training , and concerts .
- - -
Copy this : Punctuated by an emphatic " No comment " from Xerox , Rick Thoman submitted his resignation as president and CEO of the world 's largest copier manufacturer Thursday , according to the online edition of the Financial Times .
Although Xerox directors met to consider management issues associated with Thoman 's resignation , the company had nothing to say , other than " Any reports you 've seen are based on rumor and speculation , and Xerox can not comment . "
Paul Allaire , the man Thoman succeeded at the helm of Xerox , will take over on an interim basis .
- - -
New drug on the Street : Novartis AG , the Swiss pharmaceuticals company , made the transatlantic jump Thursday , joining the New York Stock Exchange .
It will be listed under the symbol NVS .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Big Three Come to Play at E3

LOS ANGELES -- Sega , Sony , and Nintendo all have monstrous booths next to each other here at the Electronic Entertainment Expo , but booth size is about the only thing that puts the big three on an even keel at the show .
Sega is trying to hold on to the renewed momentum from its Dreamcast , Sony is preparing a massive retail onslaught , and Nintendo was relatively quiet .
Nintendo only made a few Nintendo64 announcements , the most notable being release of " The Legend of Zelda : Majora 's Mask . "
The game is the sequel to " The Legend of Zelda : The Ocarina of Time , " which sold 7 million units .
It will ship in November for $ 69.95 .
The company 's Dolphin console , the successor to Nintendo64 , remains as vaporous as the brown haze hanging over Los Angeles .
Also hiding in the vapor is Microsoft X-Box .
At the product 's introduction in March , the Redmond , Washington , company said it would reveal more information on the console at E3 .
But that was n't the case .
Nintendo and Microsoft may have been quiet , but Sony Computer Entertainment of America grabbed the spotlight by announcing the PlayStation2 would ship in October for $ 299 , the same price as the original PlayStation when it launched in 1995 .
" The PlayStation is not the future of video game entertainment , it is the future of entertainment , period , " said Kazuo Hirai , president and chief operating officer of Sony .
Sony also announced that the PlayStation2 will not come with the 8 MB memory module that the console features in Japan , but instead will sell the module as an add-on for $ 34 .
The American version of the unit will be modified with an expansion bay that can support broadband modems and a hard drive .
Sony expects to sell almost 1 million units in advance of the console 's launch and to sell 3 million units in the United States by March 2001 .
Not to be outdone , Sega of America announced a $ 50 rebate and one month of free access to the SegaNet online service for buyers of the Dreamcast console , making its effective price $ 149 .
This comes one month after the company offered a $ 200 rebate to customers who sign up for the SegaNet service , which launched in September with 12 games .
" We have secured our base of hardcore gamers , and now with the $ 50 introductory offer and the free SegaNet subscription , Sega Dreamcast will reach a broader installed base of consumers and deliver networked gaming to the masses , " said Chris Gilbers , vice president of sales at Sega .
Sega took the wraps off several games for SegaNet , including Quake3 : Arena from id Software ; NFL 2K1 ; NBA 2K1 ; DC Bomberman ; and Magic : The Gathering .
Sega also announced a major concert promotion plan for the summer , including sponsoring the Ozzfest , Family Values Tour and Blink 182 tours .




Visible DNA Idea Wins MIT Award

CAMBRIDGE , Massachusetts -- In one of the most closely followed competitions of its kind in the world , MIT announced this year 's winner of its $ 50,000 entrepreneurship grand prize Wednesday night : the genetic imaging company-to-be EyeGen .
The 11th annual MIT $50K Entrepreneurship Competition encourages MIT students and researchers to apply their expertise to establishing and running their own businesses .
Indeed , since 1990 , previous 50 Ks have launched more than 50 firms -- which , in toto , are now valued at $ 15 billion .
However , considering that this year 's crop alone boasts 40 projects that will be taken to marketplace , the 50K is apparently in the midst of its own youthful growth spurt .
In his introductory remarks , MIT Board of Trustees Chairman Alex d'Arbeloff joked that this time around , he started to worry " like a college basketball coach who fears losing his star players to the NBA . "
" But do n't succumb to that temptation , " he added . "
Finish that degree.
You 'll thank me for this advice someday . "
The 206 teams that entered the competition last fall all followed a year-long series of events and activities led by a team of mentors from the business , finance , and venture capital worlds .
The schedule -- involving workshops on team-building , entrepreneurial strategy , intellectual property , global startups , and strategic partnerships -- centered around helping the participants develop and refine their business plan .
These business plans then formed the basis of the competition , which winnowed the initial field down to 48 semi-finalists in December , and finally , in March , seven finalists .
As a whole , the seven finishers represented the sort of tech-intensive interests one might expect from the world 's most famous nerd sanctuary .
The blue-ribbon winning team from EyeGen told the full house at MIT 's Kresge Auditorium that the company is now looking at an estimated $ 230 million market opportunity for its product : The patented EyeGenRed dye that makes DNA visible to the naked eye .
Currently , radioactivity and ultra-violet fluorescence are used in marking and identifying genetic information in the lab -- both involving expensive equipment , time-consuming processes , and potential hazards for the researcher .
All three , they asserted , are eliminated with EyeGenRed .
" Now we no longer need those stinking badges , " said EyeGen 's Zoran Zdraveski , pointing to the radioactive exposure-monitoring film badge many genetic researchers wear today .
The two 50K runners-up tackled two of the leading technical Internet issues today : distributed computing and network security .
Centrata , which brought its own cheering section to the awards ceremony , borrows from the success of the network number-crunching SETI@home project .
But instead of appealing to users ' curiosity in searching for extraterrestrial intelligence , Centrata appeals to the bottom line .
" I 'm guessing that each of you here tonight has a computer at home that you 're not using right now , " said CEO Shishir Mehrota . "
Well , with Centrata , you can get back value for your computer .
...
We 're creating a marketplace where PC owners can sell unused computing resources . "
Centrata , he said , will offer downloadable software that leases part of a user 's CPU time and hard-drive to Centrata for its clients ' applications .
In the process , he said , Centrata will be combining the world 's fastest computer -- boasting teraflops of processing speed -- with the world 's largest disk drive , offering petabytes of storage space .
Mazu Networks , which will be incorporating next week , bases its technology on Mazu founder Eddie Kohler 's PhD thesis , now in preparation .
The " Mazu box " is a network router that , according to Mazu 's Paul Hsiao , " adapts and learns about network traffic problems and performs network-level congestion control . "
Mazu boxes , Hisao explained , are the ideal antidote to the denial-of-service attacks that have recently plagued such high-profile sites as Amazon.com and eBay . "
DoS
They can detect DoS attacks at gigabit speeds and stop attacks at the source , " he said .
Other finalists included Amtek , which markets the winning invention of this year 's MIT-Lemelson student invention award , Amy Smith 's no-electricity lab incubator for water quality testing in developing countries ; microEngine , which commercializes MIT 's micro jet engine technology to power miniature generators that increase laptop battery pack lifespans by a factor of ten ; and Strong Numbers , which offers a comprehensive database of going rates and bidding strategies for online auctions .
Citing examples of the personal computer , electric car , and the Internet , keynote speaker and former governor William Weld commended the students for championing the " disruptive technologies " that are now entering the marketplace .
" The residual lessons I 'd offer you tonight are two , " he said . "
First , you should circle back to &#91;partner with&#93 ; big , fat , Main Street America .
...
And tell them you 'll still respect them in the morning .
" But , second , when morning comes , " he added , " I want you to fly from your Main Street partners as fast as you can . "




Napster May Not Matter Anymore

Napster may be on its way to becoming irrelevant .
The company came under fire last week as it lost the first round of its court fight against the Recording Industry Association of America and then blocked access to 317,377 people whom Metallica claims have been trading its music illegally on the service .
If Napster strikes a deal with the recording industry or users are charged a fee to trade files , the company could quickly lose its outsider status -- the very thing that gave it cachet with its members .
" It 's really going to be interesting to see what the reaction in the hacker community will be if Napster is forced to sign a deal with the recording industry , " said New York-based copyright lawyer Whitney Broussard .
Regardless of the future of Napster , file-trading applications will continue to exist on the Web , said software consultant David E. Weekly .
" The amazing thing about Napster is n't the program , it 's the idea , " Weekly said . "
You can n't litigate the idea .
You can n't tell people that they need to stop thinking about the idea .
Already we 've seen commercial alternatives pop up with Scour Exchange , so even if Napster is sued out of existence , there are alternatives popping up everywhere . "
a commercial file-trading exchange
What most likely will spring up in its place is a series of open-source programs like Gnutella .
" People download the Napster program and that connects to a Napster server owned by Napster , Inc. , and then the users can begin sharing data , " said Weekly , who reverse-engineered the Napster application and posted the source code on the Web , helping facilitate the open-source coding of the program . "
Once somebody understands the application 's protocol , they can create a client that looks like the Napster program or you could create a server that looks like Napster . "




Who Do Cops Call ?
Virus-Busters

Police investigating computer viruses are increasingly turning to a trio of amateur computer sleuths when they need help tracking cybercriminals .
Love Bug investigators have called on a team that includes a retired East Coast entrepreneur and a pair of Swedish students .
Each member plays an important role in uncovering the digital clues .
To help track down the origin of the Love Bug , dubbed the most destructive email worm unleashed to date , Richard Smith , Fredrik Bjorck and Jonathan James have again joined together to find its origin .
The three first came together to help find the author of the Melissa email worm , which set a new precedent in destructiveness when unleashed last year .
The trios elder statesman , Richard Smith , is a retired programmer from Brookline , Massachusetts , who founded and still owns Phar Lap software , which builds software for embedded systems .
Smith started looking into Web security issues a couple of years ago as a hobby , and in 1999 documented RealNetworks ' sneaky data-gathering practices , uncovered Microsoft 's suspicious registrationprocedures , and was the first to publicize the unique identifying numbers in digital documents .
He later joined with Bjorck and James to track Melissa worm author David Smith .
Fredrik Bjorck is a 27-year-old Ph.D. student in information security at the University of Stockholm and a consultant for a major international tax and accounting firm .
Bjorck said he bought in James , an 18-year-old high school student from Uppsala , a town about an hour north of Stockholm , to do some to help with the laborious task of combing through the source code .
We met via Usenet, explained Bjorck .
Richard was going to try to track down the author of Melissa , and I contacted him to share some information .
From there , we working as a team.
began
Since then the trio has kept in contact through email and phone , but the Swedes and Smith have never met in person .
Last Wednesday , when the Love Bug hit , the three started down different , but ultimately converging , tracks .
Bjorck said he was the first to point out that ISP Access Net in Manila was infected and tracked it to an apartment in Manila .
The group was able to quickly close in on the suspected perpetrators within hours of the worms release .
And as it swept across the world bringing down computers everywhere , the digital detectives quickly identified people who were later questioned by authorities .
The group fingered Filipino college students Onel de Guzman and Michael Beun days before the authorities announced that they wanted to speak to the pair .
James had downloaded the virus and examined the source code revealing the embedded resume of Michael Buen -- a clue , in Bjorcks opinion , that the virus was not meant to be released onto the Internet .
According to Smith , James made the major breakthrough by finding a link between the Love Bug and previously-released viruses , which pointed the trio to the AMA Computer College in the Philippines .
It then became a question of linking the apartment and the college .
So when an MSNBC reporter told Smith about Onel de Guzman , a dropout from the college who also lived in the apartment , Smith connected the dots .
Although Onel de Guzman has been brought in for questioning by authorities in Manila , the team hasnt ruled out the involvement of others .
Bjorck said he may yet turn out to be primary distributor rather than the original author .
He said De Guzman appears to be a member of Grammersoft , a hacking group of AMACC students that ran a business that sold term papers and small business software , according to the college .
The trio is hesitant to talk about its interaction with the FBI .
Smith said only that the FBI was informed at all times .
Bjorck said he wanted to stress that he has only a casual relationship with the authorities .
Just to make this clear .
I personally do not have any formal working agreement with the FBI, said Bjorck .
We do not have a formal relationship , not even a stable informal one .
It is just when we have something that they phone us..
Jim Margolin , a special agent in the FBI 's New York office , which is leading the US investigation , said it was normally against FBI policy to discuss citizens ' investigative contributions .
But in this case , he was willing to confirm the trio were working with investigators .
He would not , however , characterize the nature of their contributions , except to say : " They are recognized by our people to generally know what they are talking about . "
Margolin said the FBI has been in continual contact with the authorities in the Philippines , and said that the FBI is talking to the US Attorney 's office about the possibility of extraditing suspects because of a lack of applicable statutes in the Philippines .
The three sleuths are motivated by the thrill of the chase rather than any mercenary urges .
Basically , we are asking the question , Is it possible to make the Internet secure enough for e-commerce , education and entertainment? Bjorck said .
Its also the challenge " he said . "
Im motivated by gaining knowledge about how this large network really works.




The Quest for Real Thrills

LOS ANGELES -- For the first time in three years , Ion Storm 's John Romero does n't have to hide in the shadows at E3 .
The P.T. Barnum of computer games was happy to be among the throngs of vendors hyping new games at the Electronic Entertainment Expo .
After three years of promises , Ion Storm will finally ship Daikatana next week .
Romero was happy not to have to answer the " when " question again , and was content to chat about any game besides his own .
His next game ?
He will n't say . "
After that whole Daikatana mess I learned not to say anything , " he said .
Ion Storm was also demonstrating Anachronox , a role-playing game .
The game play and cinematic sequences that cut between scenes all use the same rendering engine , resulting in a much smoother experience .
Competitor Final Fantasy VII , on the other hand , uses gorgeous rendered cinematic sequences , but the game play looks like it was drawn with a crayon .
- - -
EverQuest Lite ? : New World Computing , one of the granddaddies of role-playing games , is working on scaled back online games .
Legends of Might and Magic , based on the LithTech 3D engine , will be a multi-player game for up to six network players .
It will be a quest-based game similar to EverQuest , but unlike EQ -- where you often have to run after a monster to kill it before someone else does -- your quest is your own . "
With this , you do n't have to go through anyone else 's trash .
It 's just you and your friends , " said a New World employee .
The Might and Magic brand is almost 15 years old , and New World is still leveraging it extensively .
The company showed off Warriors of Might and Magic , which is pure action as opposed to role playing .
New World said Might and Magic IX will ship next spring using the same technology as Legends of Might and Magic .
New World may be the next to jump into the online gaming craze a la EverQuest/Ultima Online .
When asked if there could ever be a Might and Magic Online , a company official just smiled and said cryptically " I would n't rule it out . "
- - -
Diablo II is coming ... really : The biggest E3 crowds were at the Blizzard Entertainment booth for Diablo II and Warcraft III , with game geeks packed six deep around the Diablo II and Warcraft III demo stations .
Warcraft III will come out this winter , and Diablo , which was planned for last Christmas , is coming in July . "
And this time we mean it ! " said a Blizzard programmer .
- - -
Hasbro gets on board : Family favorite Hasbro is taking its franchise board games online .
The company was previewing Games.com. , which launches in the first quarter of 2001 and will feature interactive versions of Monopoly , Scrabble , Risk , and others .
Games.com will feature 50 interactive games across seven channels , such as game shows , casino , sports , and family arcade .
- - -
Smart selling : In Sony 's multi-acre booth , there was a bank of PlayStation 2s set up on high definition TVs playing The Matrix to show off the console 's DVD capabilities .
due to be released in October
There were more people watching the movie that there were playing games in many other booths .
All of the PlayStation 2 demo units had people playing games , too .
Contrast that to the Sega booth , where there were some Dreamcasts sitting idle and unused with Quake 3 : Arena on the screen .
Not a good sign .
E3=T&A : Companies are providing lots of jiggle and skin for the predominantly male audience .
One shapely woman was wearing short shorts and an X Show tank top , promoting the juvenile FX cable show , and the show 's program guides were being handed out by women in tiny cheerleader outfits .
Even Net news company CNET got into the spirit , hiring women to wear halter tops emblazoned with Playboy bunnies , and yellow skirts with their splashy logo .
- - -
Now that 's detail : To show off its new GeForce 2 GTS cards , NVidia made a special Quake 3 : Arena map that looks beautiful on the GeForce 2 , acceptable on a GeForce card , and badly on anything else .
The map contains some of the most incredible detail ever , with more than 9,000 brushes , or solid objects .
NVidia was told by id Software that they did n't think the map could go beyond 6,000 brushes , so they are definitely pushing the limits .




Sony Emulator Plays on Sega

LOS ANGELES -- Software company Bleem has introduced emulation software that allows the popular Dreamcast console to run PlayStation games .
At the Electronics Entertainment Expo here Thursday , the company demonstrated Bleem for Dreamcast software that it claims will play games written for the original PlayStation better on the competing Dreamcast than on Sony 's upcoming PlayStation 2 .
Bleem previously created emulation technology that enabled PCs to use games authored for the PlayStation .
In the new software , Bleem took advantage of the superior processing power in the Dreamcast to double the resolution over PlayStation and add anti-aliasing technology , which makes the graphics appear much smoother .
PlayStation games are displayed in 320x240 pixel resolution on the television set , while Bleem for Dreamcast displays images at 640x480 .
Even though PlayStation 2 will be backwards compatible with PlayStation games and have improved hardware , it will n't support a higher resolution .
" We built a better PlayStation than Sony , " said Sean Kauppinen , director of marketing for Bleem .
Officials from Sony and Sega were unavailable for comment Thursday .
Each $ 19.99 game pack includes emulation software that , once loaded onto the Dreamcast , will enable 100 different games to run .
Users must also have copies of the game software .
The first pack will ship in mid-June , with a second in August and two more by Christmas , providing a total of 400 PlayStation games that will eventually run on Dreamcast .
Kauppinen said Bleem also is developing hardware for Dreamcast players .
The Bleem Pad for Dreamcast , also due out in June , will be a PlayStation-style game controller .
Bleem also is working on a visual memory unit-reader that would enable PlayStation games to be saved on the Dreamcast .
Bleem , based in Los Angeles , currently is locked in a court battle with Sony over the distribution of its PC software .
The company was victorious in two other court cases with Sony last week .
Sony 's attempt to block Bleem from exhibiting was denied .
The other win related to advertising .
Sony had fought to prevent Bleem from using screen shots in advertisements comparing Bleem for Dreamcast to the PlayStation , Kauppinen said . "
Sony argued that screen shots would hurt their sales , but the judge said if their sales slip , it will n't be because of the ads , it 's because the Bleem technology is superior . "




EU Doubles Renewable Energy

BRUSSELS , Belgium -- The European Commission today unveiled its long-awaited proposal for a directive on renewable energy support in the 15 nations of the European Union .
The draft law aims to double the proportion of green energy from 6 percent to 12 percent of primary energy supply by increasing the share of renewably generated electricity from 14 percent to 22 percent by 2010 .
Today 's adoption of the draft directive marks the end of a tortuous process which has seen two previous proposals fall at the final hurdle after opposition from member countries , industry , and environmental groups .
EU Energy Commissioner Loyola de Palacio outlined the thrust of the directive last month and the final draft introduces no changes .
Member states will be able to keep national financial support schemes for at least five years but should eventually adopt a harmonized EU system .
Non-binding indicative national targets for renewables will be set to ensure the overall European Union target is met .
Member states will have to report annually on their progress , and the Commission will propose mandatory targets if national goals are " inconsistent " with the EU target .
With the issue of support schemes side-stepped for the moment , all attention is now likely to fix on the draft indicative targets .
Though these are based on existing national targets for around half of member states , the Commission is proposing that several of them take stronger action .
At least six countries under pressure to launch new , more ambitious policies -- Finland , France , Greece , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , and Portugal .
The renewable energy industry and environmentalists accept that the proposed targets are ambitious but argue that they should be made immediately binding to have real effect .
They predict that finalization of the directive will be delayed as governments try to reduce their share of the burden of reaching the 12 percent target .
Commissioner de Palacio admitted today that there " may be problems " agreeing to final targets in the Council of Ministers .
The directive proposes several other supporting measures for renewables .
Member states would have to certify green energy schemes to enable producers to guarantee that electricity they sell is renewably generated .
The certification requirements would ease green electricity trades if the EU eventually decides for such a system , the Commission said .
Member states will also have to review planning and administrative procedures to " reduce regulatory barriers " to renewables uptake .
This will include setting up single reception points for project applications , better cooperation between authorities , and " fast-track " land-use planning procedures .
Although no mandatory rules will be introduced on sharing the costs of electricity transmission , system operators will be obliged to grant priority to renewable energy generators .
Connection charges , meanwhile , will have to " reflect the economic costs and benefits associated with the connection " so that costs for small generators are not " unfairly prohibitive . "
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Los Alamos Fuming Over Nukes

As firefighters struggle to extinguish the ball of fire in Los Alamos , New Mexico that came within 300 yards of a plutonium storage facility , charred 20,000 acres , and drove 20,000 people from their homes , all eyes turn toward the cloud of smoke that is slowly drifting over the city .
Email messages are flying , message boards are overflowing , and the dreaded word on everyone 's lips is " radiation . "
" The fire in Los Alamos , NM is the beginning of the end , " read one message on a posting board . "
I have been sitting in here , watching my television , and looking out my window at the smoke , and it is crazy . "
Residents say they 're worried that the smoke might be contaminated because the fire came so close to the Los Alamos National Laboratories , the nation 's largest nuclear facility .
Officials say they 're monitoring the air for contamination and have found nothing unusual .
" There is no indication of any release from initial sample analyses , " said U.S. Department of Energy spokeswoman Tami Toops at the Joint Information Center in Santa Fe .
And just because the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory has stepped in to monitor the smoke does n't mean anything , officials say .
" We 've been tracking the smoke plumes , " said Livermore Labs spokesman Stephen Wampler . "
The smoke 's really thick . "
He said the reason they were tracking the plumes had nothing to do with radiation concerns .
" Not at this point at all , " he said .
But the " not at this point " kind of response from the government does n't do much to quell the fears of local residents who look out their windows and fear the worst .
Environmentalists and residents have a long history of worrying about the environmental damage that may have resulted from years of weapons work at the Los Alamos laboratory .
Though lab officials say the facility is designed to withstand the impact of a 747 aircraft , area residents are concerned that not all the residue radioactive material is contained within the facility .
According to the Albuquerque Journal , the lab has buried or otherwise discharged toxic and radioactive wastes into nearby canyons , underlying ground water , and at least 1,000 sites over a 56-year period .
According to a recorded message from the Los Alamos Study Group , an independent monitoring team recommended by Concerned Citizens for Nuclear Safety , independent testing has n't turned up anything . Yet .
" We believe there is no real danger to anybody downwind , " the message reads .
But it goes on to say , " We do n't think that the Department of Energy is being very forthcoming .
If there was a problem I do n't think we would hear about it . "
Jim Ellis , director of the National Atmospheric Release Advisory Center , a branch of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory that has responded to past disasters including Three Mile Island , said his department 's involvement in the fire should not indicate an expected repeat of that nuclear accident .
" You can n't read anything into this , " he said . "
When they called us in , it was , ' Hey , we need help with the weather forecast .
' "
Asked whether there could be a threat from the burning of outside areas that may be contaminated , Ellis said , " Draw your own conclusions . "




MS Finally Addresses Email Hole

SEATTLE -- Microsoft said Monday it will issue a patch for its corporate email software that will help defend customers against computer viruses like the recent Love Bug that shut down many company and government networks .
The patch , which is a small bit of programming code that fixes a software bug or changes the way an application works , will stop users of Microsoft 's Outlook software from receiving certain types files that hold the most common viruses .
" Given the fact that Love Bug was a global economic event , we need to do our part ... and take pretty decisive steps here , and we think this will eradicate this class of viruses , " Tom Bailey , Microsoft 's group product manager for Office , said in an interview .
The Love Bug spread by making copies of itself and sending them out to listings in a victim 's email address book in Outlook , Microsoft 's scheduling and communications application for corporations and institutions .
In the wake of the virus attack earlier this month , many analysts pointed a finger at Microsoft , saying the software giant 's products were far too vulnerable to hackers and malicious software programs like the Love Bug .
Microsoft 's fix , which will be available here on May 22 , will not let users open files containing the suffix " .exe , " " . bat , " and others that indicate the file is a program that performs certain functions , Bailey said .
It will not affect picture , document , or Web page file types such as " . jpg , " " .doc , " or " .htm , " because the software tools used to view those files already contained strong security measures , Bailey said .
Outlook would also be updated so that if a program tried to access a user 's address book , a warning would pop up on screen asking whether or not to let the program proceed .
" That is trying to attack the malicious replication and put users back in control , " Bailey said .
pop-up message
Bailey said the pop-up could appear for other legitimate software , such as that for personal digital assistants , that try to access the address book .
Information on what programs will be affected will be posted on the Web page .
" We always try to strike a balance between the openness of the product and security , " Bailey said .
" We 've tried to be reactive to this thing , like antivirus software writers are .
What we are trying to do going forward is to take a more proactive response to this , " he said .




Odds and Endless Waits at E3

Microsoft broke the silence around its upcoming X-Box console , reluctantly providing some details at E3 .
But the company repeatedly said the console is still 16 months away .
At a press only demonstration , Microsoft stressed what we 'd see is only one-tenth of what the unit will do .
In the mean time , the company is working on a slow build and says it 's actually doing " anti-evangelism " to calm down excited game developers , who are itching to say they will plan to support the X-Box .
" We want a steady , measured release of information over time , rather than build up expectations so high people are disappointed no matter what we ship , " said Seamus Blackley , director of advanced technology at Microsoft .
At this point , no games for the X-Box have been officially announced , but there will be a software developer kit available in June .
The huge chrome X-shaped demo unit , first shown when the X-Box was introduced at the Game Developer 's Conference in March , is actually proving to be a hit . "
Can you believe people have told me they 'd like to have this in their home ? " asked Blackley .
Microsoft will be announcing some high-profile people joining the X-Box team in the coming weeks .
Here 's one name that 's out : Michael Abrash , considered one of the best graphics programmers in the business , and a major influence on 3D programmers like id Software 's John Carmack .
Celeb-spotting : E3 sure managed to pull in the celebrities .
The biggest name of the bunch would have to be Regis Philbin , who was there for the introduction of Who Wants to Be A Millionaire ?
2nd Edition .
Also there were actresses Nana Visitor to hype Star Trek : Deep Space Nine and Catherine Bach for The Dukes of Hazzard : Race for Home , and soccer star Mia Hamm , there to promote Nintendo 's Mia Hamm64 soccer game .
Sega Prepares to Rumble : In the face of PlayStation 2 , Sega introduced a batch of new hardware peripherals .
The first is the Dreamcast DVD player , which will play DVD movies , just like the PlayStation 2 .
It also introduced an MP3 Player , an Ethernet card for cable modem and DSL access , and a digital camera .
In addition , Sega introduced a game that might draw fire from self-appointed guardians of morality : UFC .
UFC is a fighting game , a very popular genre on console games , based on the Ultimate Fighting Championship contests .
The no-holds-barred fighting was enormously popular in 1995-96 , drawing higher pay-per-view ratings than pro-wrestling and approaching boxing 's numbers .
Then Senator John McCain got wind of it , decided he did n't like it so no one else should see it -- and went on a one-Senator crusade to eliminate UFC .
It worked .
Every cable company kicked off UFC , despite its popularity , essentially killing it in the United States .
UFC-style fighting is still enormously popular in Japan , where the game originated .
Thanks for the Support , Guys : Overzealous fans and supporters can sometimes be more of a detriment than a blessing , but they 've never killed a product .
Until now .
PC Accelerator , a magazine aimed at high-end gamers , was shut down because its readership of hardcore gamers were flaming its advertisers .
They wrote obscene letters to PC makers like Dell for advertising in the magazine , since most hardcore gamers build their own PCs .
The worst case was when AOL sign-up CDs were included in an issue . "
You would n't believe how many people microwaved their AOL CDs and sent them to AOL , saying ' Do n't ever advertise in PC Accelerator ever again , ' " said one former staffer .
Publisher Imagine Media , which has over a dozen gaming magazines , did n't need this headache and pulled the plug .
Should Be a Big Hit in West Hollywood : Normally people snatch up T-shirts like crazy at these shows , but there was one no one wanted : It was for TinyPenis.com , a site that defies explanation .
An amused female security agent was walking around the show with the shirt , having gotten one from the site 's administrators , who were there as well . "
I have n't gotten anyone to take it yet , " she laughed .




' Love Bug ' Suspect List Grows

Investigators in the Philippines said they have identified 10 additional suspects in the " Love Bug " virus case .
The names were culled from 17 computer disks seized from the Manila apartment where police say the virus may have been launched .
The virus was tracked to the apartment with relatively simple technology : caller-ID .
The new suspects have not been named , but investigators said many are current and former students at the Amable Mendoza Aguiluz Computer College .
Onel de Guzman , 23 , who lives at the apartment where the computer was taken , attempted to submit a thesis about a Trojan horse that strongly resembles the Love Bug .
He admitted last week that he may have inadvertently launched the virus .
Michael Buen , 23 , an AMACC graduate fingered by college officials last week as a possible collaborator in the computer virus , held a press condference Sunday to deny his involvement .
" In an effort to restore some semblance of normalcy to my life and that of my family , I should like to categorically state for the record that I have no involvement or participation whatsoever in the design , development , creation , or dissemination of the ' I Love You ' virus , " he said in a statement read by his attorney .
According to officials at AMACC , Buen submitted a thesis on the creation of multiple copies of computer files .
Investigators say he may have been working with de Guzman .
The virus is estimated to have caused up to $ 8 billion in damages since its detection May 3 .




Good Macs Come in Small Packages

Apple is expected this week to unveil forward-thinking technologies , including its new Mac OS X operating system , possibly multiprocessor computers , and the companys re-entry into the handheld market .
Apple will provide details about the long-anticipated operating OS X , along with Darwin , the sister open-source project , at the Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose , California .
But for some Apple enthusiasts , the company will never improve one of its earliest computers , the Color Classic .
Upgrading Color Classics has become so popular that in some parts of the globe , prices on the old models have been driven up , and are almost impossible to find .
In parts of Asia , buyers will pay in excess of U.S.$600 , compared to about $ 100 in the United States , reports Patrick Ng , who created a website documenting his Color Classic " fixation . "
" I now see the uncompromising beauty and elegance from Color Classic even more obviously , it simply shines , " Ng writes . "
the
As this mystic discovery continues , my super-ego seems to warn me the danger of the game , the emotional attachment to a physical object .
of
Can n't wait for tomorrow 's encounter with my first Color Classic . "
And a significant number of the Classic 's fans are going to absurd lengths to upgrade these aging , painfully slow machines .
In Japan , the Club for Creating the Strongest Color Classic , which boasts more than 300 members , has figured out how to slice and dice Power Mac motherboards so that they fit inside the Color Classic 's diminutive case .
Maxus Computer Upgrade Service will shoehorn an iMac motherboard into a Color Classic chassis for a cool $ 2,500 -- the price of two brand-new iMacs .
Tom Owad , who runs AppleFritter , a site dedicated to odd Mac modifications including building a Mac into a suitcase , suggested that the cramped living quarters of many Japanese apartments lends the diminutive Classic its air of desirability .
" The land shortage has a lot to do with it , " he said .
First released in 1992 , the Color Classic is in many ways the progenitor of the iMac : a compact , all-in-one box about the size of a small portable TV .




N.Y. Gets Hip to Cybersex Woes

NEW YORK -- " Cybersex is the crack-cocaine of sex addiction . "
Even in Hicksville , USA , a statement like that would be old news .
But in New York ?
That 's the message Patrick Carnes , clinical director for sexual disorders services at the Wickenburg , Arizona , addiction treatment center the Meadows Institute , was giving this week .
The hook : His message was being delivered to 75 fellow therapists at the Meadows Institute Symposium .
Digital technology is turbo-charging age-old sexual compulsions , creating virulent new strains of sex addiction unheard of just a few years back , he told colleagues gathered at a Manhattan hotel .
" The anonymity of the Internet , the perceived lack of risk , is leading large numbers of people to have problems with sex addiction that would have never had them before , " Carnes said .
Those who already have sexual compulsion problems , moreover , are finding out that the Internet can make things much worse .
Example : A former Meadows patient , Sue , was constantly having affairs during her 13-year marriage .
not her real name
Shortly after discovering the Net , Sue became involved in sexually oriented chat rooms .
Despite a self-imposed , hour-per-night limit , she was soon up all night chatting .
Then , Sue starting giving her phone number out , and having phone sex with men she met online .
Finally , Sue began to meet the men in person .
" She met a guy in a hotel room in a Southeastern state .
He beat her and left her for dead .
When she came out of her coma , she finally decided to get help , " Carnes said .
Not all sexual compulsives are as easy to identify .
And of course , not everyone who checks out Playboy or Penthouse online should be considered a cybersex addict .
But there are ways to identify addicts .
Carnes offers these criteria :
Overuse .
More than six to eight hours per week are spent in online sex .
Recognition of the problem .
Understanding that there 's something wrong .
Interference with life .
Work and relationships become compromised .
Inability to stop .
There have been efforts to set boundaries that have failed .
Sexual compulsion often begins , Carnes said , with the " arousal template " -- a story , image , or a process , often created in youth , which leads to heightened sexual feelings .
All people have such templates .
But for some -- especially those abused in childhood -- accessing the template can lead to feelings of shame , fear , and anger .




Mac OS X Slips Again

SAN JOSE , California -- The delivery date for a shrink-wrapped release of Mac OS X -- Apple 's eagerly awaited next generation operating system -- will not be this summer as planned .
The client version of Mac OS X will be available as a finished , boxed product in January 2001 -- six months later than promised .
Instead , this summer Apple will embark on deploying a wide-scale public beta testing of the same software , Apple 's CEO Steve Jobs announced on Monday at the company 's annual developers ' conference .
The server version of OS X shipped in January of 1998 .
During his keynote speech , Jobs called the modified plans a name-change and not a delay .
" Like a lot of things in life , you can do what you were going to do but change the names of things to make a lot of people happy , " Jobs told the standing-room-only audience for his keynote address .
This is n't the first time the release date for Mac OS X has changed .
When it was announced in 1998 , the operating system was scheduled for a fall 1999 release .
But in 1998 Apple pushed the release date back to early 2000 , and has now pushed it back to early 2001 .
An Apple press release from January said : " Mac OS X will go on sale as a shrink-wrapped software product this summer and will be pre-loaded as the standard operating system on all Macintosh computers in early 2001 . "
But Apple officials insist the company has not delayed the product .
Phil Schiller , vice president of worldwide product marketing at Apple , said this summer the company will be delivering the same engineering build of Mac OS X , with the same features as originally promised , but that " we have changed the name . "
He said customers asked Apple to do this in order to get feedback on the product .
Apple 's attempts to update the famous but aging Macintosh operating system go back at least five years .
Previous attempts , like the doomed Copland , were abandoned wholesale when Jobs returned to Apple in 1997 .
Mac OS X , which is widely perceived as Jobs ' baby , is an attempt to make the Mac OS a truly modern operating system that is easy to use , handles multiple tasks simultaneously , and will n't crash .
The final version will be available pre-loaded onto new Macs in January 2001 , Jobs said .
The postponed ship date left many developers unfazed .
" I do n't think the slip really matters , " said Michael Peirce , director of emerging technologies at Granitar , a Web applications developer . "
What 's six months in the grand scheme of things ?
I think it 's more important for it to be stable and solid and slick . "
" I think it looks terrific , " said Sanford Selznick of Selznick Scientific Software .




Lycos , Terra Merge

NEW YORK -- Spanish Internet group Terra Networks SA agreed Tuesday to buy U.S. Internet search company Lycos Inc. for $ 12.5 billion in stock , or $ 97.55 a share , in a move to create one of the world 's largest Internet companies and broaden its geographic reach .
The combined company , which will be called Terra Lycos Inc. , will have pro forma 2000 revenues of about $ 500 million and together currently have an estimated 50 million unique users and 175 million page views per day .
Juan Villalonga , who is chairman of both Telefonica and Terra , will head the merged Lycos-Terra .
Robert Davis , currently Lycos president and chief executive , would be the chief executive , the source said .
As part of the agreement Germany 's Bertelsmann AG , the third-largest media company in the world , agreed to purchase $ 1 billion of advertising , placement and integration services from Terra Lycos worldwide over five years .
Terra-Lycos , meanwhile , will gain access to Bertelsmann 's books , music , television , film , and other media content , on preferred terms .
This alliance builds on the existing Lycos-Bertelsmann joint venture in Europe , Lycos Europe , of which Bertelsmann will remain a significant shareholder .
Lycos is the parent company of Wired News .
- - -
Register to vote : ABCNEWS.com has reached an agreement with OnlineDemocracy.com that makes ABCNEWS.com the first news site to offer voter registration over the Internet .
The deal , effective immediately , makes it easier for citizens in 46 states to either register for the first time or to change their voter registration information .
Registration forms can be obtained at ABCNEWS.com 's politics section .
- - -
Scotched : The maker of Scotchgard waterproofing products will stop manufacturing part of its line after tests revealed that the chemical compounds involved can linger in the environment and in the human body for several years .
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing , better known as 3M , said Tuesday that it would phase out product lines that contain perfluorooctanyl , including Scotchgard that is commercially applied to carpets .
The affected product lines account for about $ 300 million in annual sales , or about 2 percent of total 3M sales .
- - -
They sing , they talk : GetMusic said Tuesday that it will host a weekly , hour-long talk show featuring sit-down interviews with band members and music personalities .
The show , with Rolling Stone magazine contributor Anthony DeCurtis doing the interviews , debuts on May 24 at 8 p.m. EDT .
The band Phish will be first up for the webcast .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Phone Phreaks to Rise Again ?

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Back before there were hackers , phreakers ruled the underground .
They may be making a comeback , to the chagrin of those on whom they prey .
A phreaker explores the telephone system .
Some are just electronic voyeurs who want to understand how telecom structure works .
Others exploit vulnerabilities in the system to get free long-distance service , re-route calls , change phone numbers , or eavesdrop on conversations .
In the 1960s and '70s , phreaking usually involved building devices that could trick telephone systems into believing that the phreaker 's instructions were originating from the telephone company 's internal systems .
But computer-based telephone systems were n't susceptible to these sorts of creative workarounds .
So phone phreaks had to learn some hacking skills .
And , as the world moves towards integrated voice and data systems , " black hat " phreaks may soon pose more of a threat to computer system security than the " pure " hackers and crackers who disrupt and vandalize computer systems and websites .
Chad Cooper of ProDX Professional Data Exchange , an information technology consulting company , said he believes that IP-based telephone systems , where phones are connected into a PC 's RJ-45 Ethernet jack , may represent a new backdoor into corporate networks .
Some of the new PBX systems run voice and data over the same network .
Remote offices could be connected via a WAN and would use the same connections for voice traffic between offices .
If a remote office had high-speed access to the Internet and the home office did as well , users could technically take advantage of IP telephony to place a phone call through the Internet .
A company can save a lot of money this way , since data lines from telephone carriers are cheaper than voice lines from the same carriers .
The rub is the phones have to have access to the Internet , and this is all the hacker phreak needs , Cooper said .
" Essentially , the software and hardware of this phone system would be tied directly into MS Windows MAPI and TAPI extensions , which are commonly exploited in Trojans and worm viruses , " he said .
mail API 's
telephony API 's
Halcon founder Valiant disagrees .
who goes by one name
He believes that apart from social engineering , there 's not much you can achieve with or through a phone alone .
And he dismisses the idea of phreak hack attacks taking down networks like the Love Bug did .




Critics Blast MS Security

If you 're a Windows 2000 user , be warned : Your security software may not work the way you think it does .
Microsoft intentionally designed Windows 2000 so that export versions can use a notoriously weak encryption method to scramble information sent over the Internet and intranets , leaving sensitive data exposed to hackers and eavesdroppers .
This design choice has alarmed security experts , not least because so many Microsoft products recently have had so many problems .
The company spent the last week acknowledging embarrassing security holes in its Hotmail service , Internet Explorer browser , and Outlook mail client .
A Microsoft manager on Monday defended why Windows 2000 computers in some circumstances switch from the highly secure triple-DES algorithm to the notoriously weak single-DES variant .
Triple-DES is up to 70,000 trillion times stronger .
Ron Cully , lead program manager for Windows networking , said that companies might have thousands of machines and some might not have triple-DES installed .
Because of U.S. export and other import restrictions , Microsoft ships triple-DES in a separate " high encryption pack . "
" It 's somewhat expected behavior that someone will misconfigure an end system and not install the high-security pack , " Cully said .
Having at least some encryption is better than nothing , he said .
That 's not the point , charge Cully 's peers at other companies that are working on the same security standard , called IPsec .
In a no-holds-barred critique that began last week on the IPsec mailing list -- run by the Internet Engineering Task Force -- they argued it was another example of slipshod Microsoft security .
Their beef : If two Windows 2000 computers without triple-DES are talking and the system administrator has configured triple-DES-only links , only single-DES gets used .
The only error shown is an invisible one -- in an audit log file -- so users may have a false sense of security .
" From an administrator perspective , it is hard to imagine how a security hole could be worse : Windows lets you think all is OK but in reality something else happens on the wire , " wrote Sami Vaarala of NetSeal Technologies , an information security firm in Espoo , Finland .
" This is * seriously* brain-damaged .
I 've given up expecting good software design from Microsoft , since they are far too arrogant about their abilities to design and write error-free code , " Steve Bellovin , a cryptologic researcher at AT&T , wrote on the IPsec list last week .
actually , from most vendors
and everyone else
" Users who request 3 DES do so because they perceive a threat model that DES can n't counter .
rightly or wrongly
Why is their reasoning invalid ? "
Bellovin asked .
Microsoft dismisses the criticism , attributing it to a philosophical difference and arguing that its large customers do n't appear to mind .
" No one has disputed this or questioned this , " Cully said . "
Clearly the customers must think this is a proper approach , rather than some people who come from a philosophical background that you manage policy from the end system and not the directory . "
He said the behavior is well documented in online and offline manuals .
" This sounds like par for the course , " said William Knowles , a consultant for c4i Secure Solutions . "
You 're talking about an operating system that leaves all the security holes wide open and makes the customer close them . "
A private-sector effort led by the Electronic Frontier Foundation and distributed.net in January 1999 broke a single-DES message in 22 hours , and government spy agencies are known to have much more muscular computers .
Microsoft said that as of May 1 , there had been 1.5 million Windows 2000 licenses sold .




The Million-Dollar Snapshot

SEATTLE -- A Seattle Times sports photographer on Thursday was awarded a $ 1 million prize in " The Photo of the Moment " contest sponsored by Photopoint.com , a website for photographers to communicate and share their images .
Steve Ringman 's photo of a line of girls holding umbrellas on a wind-swept street in San Francisco , taken 17 years ago when Ringman worked for the San Francisco Chronicle , took top prize in the contest , which drew nearly 6,000 entries from around the world .
" We were amazed by the number of pictures we received from all over the world , " said Photopoint President David Rowley . "
The quality , diversity , and emotional appeal of the pictures we received was phenomenal . "
Ringman 's original photograph ran on the front page of the San Francisco Chronicle in 1983 .
" Their executive editor said , ' OK , buddy .
If you win , we want you to donate $ 100,000 towards our charity .
' So I said , ' Fine , of course .
' "
Ringman said he knew he was among the top 10 contenders because Photopoint.com flew him and his wife to New York to appear on the CBS Early Show on Thursday morning .
Still , he had no idea whether he had won a prize until they announced it on the air .
" I 've entered a lot of contests but never for money , " Ringman said . "
When you add money to the equation it really makes you nervous . "
But Ringman is not about to quit his day job , since the $ 1 million prize will be doled out over the next 25 years .
" I 'm far from being a millionaire , but it 's not going to hurt when I get it every year .
It 's kind of like shooting freelance on the side and getting some money , " he said .
" I actually can n't think of a better guy to win that thing , " said Fred Nelson , a photo editor at the Times who works with Ringman .
Nelson said Ringman has a talent for anticipating where a good news photo will be , and for setting up clean , easily read photographs .
" He twice was Newspaper Photographer of the Year , as judged by the National Press Photographers Association , " Nelson said . "
Very few people actually win that award twice .
It 's usually a lifetime award . "




Sega : Building on Dreamcast

LOS ANGELES -- As the Dreamcast console hit the mark for selling more than 2 million units , Sega introduced a batch of peripheral technologies that expand on its wildly successful game hardware .
The company said it has planned all along to offer both new gaming components as well as non-gaming technologies .
" This shows that Dreamcast is an evolutionary platform , " said Charles Bellfield , director of marketing communications for Sega of America , in San Francisco , California .
At last week 's Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles , Sega showcased a new DVD .
E3
The company said it does not plan to ship that product , it simply wanted to show it could do this technology .
" DVD for the U.S. market is not just about playing movies , " Bellfield said , remarking on DVD 's increased storage capacity and lower cost . "
As we develop more complex games going forward , if I can use that increased capacity , then it becomes useful to us . "
While the company has yet to announcing pricing on any of its pending peripherals , it does have plenty that it plans to ship in the fourth quarter of this year .
These include :
An MP3 player that plugs into the Visual Memory Unit slot on the Dreamcast controller .
VMU
Sega has not determined the storage capacity of the unit , but it will have two extra slots for memory expansion , Bellfield said .
A 100 MB zip drive and a digital camera that takes still shots or , alternately , functions as an Internet video conferencing camera are also due out during that period .
An Ethernet plug-in card that can replace the 56k modem , so Dreamcast owners can connect to the Internet via DSL or cable modems .
Adding all of these peripherals can be a successful strategy for extending the platform , said Dean McCarron , principal analyst with Mercury Research of Scottsdale , Arizona .
" There 's no question that there are markets developing outside of being a sheer game console or just being a PC for Net access , " he said . "
This will help them leverage what they have into additional market segments . "
The key issue is having the right mix of functionality and price points .
" If you configure a system that 's $ 500 over the cost of a PC , that will n't be a viable solution , " said McCarron . "
But if you open a new price point or a user model that let 's you work with a customer base that 's completely different from your standard customer base , then you have an opportunity to expand your market . "




Soot Traps Sun 's Heat

LA JOLLA , California -- Soot , a common pollutant that has been around for thousands of years , may be a major contributor to global climate change .
Scientists have found that airborne black soot has the capacity to raise regional temperatures far more than carbon dioxide , a major greenhouse gas that also results from combustion .
Soot is formed from incompletely burned fuels and wastes .
Forest fires produce soot , as do coal burning power plants , charcoal burners , diesel engines , and trash incinerators .
A research team from the National Aeronautic and Atmospheric Administration and the Scripps Institution of Oceanography has found that the intense sunlight of the tropics heats the soot present in polluted air .
NAAA
This heating burns off the flat tops of shallow cumulus clouds for hundreds of miles downwind of pollution sources .
With less cloud cover reflecting sunlight back to space , increased solar energy reaches the Earth 's surface and the lower atmosphere .
This can significantly heat the atmosphere and oceans , the team reports in the May 12 issue of the journal Science .
" Aerosol pollution can increase or decrease cloudiness , depending on the weather and the particular ingredients of the pollution , " said Andy Ackerman , lead author of the paper and scientist at NASA 's Ames Research Center in California 's Silicon Valley . "
This newly discovered mechanism amounts to a heating effect over the Indian Ocean that is three to five times as strong as the global effect of increases in carbon dioxide since pre-industrial times , " he said .
The research team used measurements of the dark haze covering vast areas of the Indian Ocean as input to a sophisticated computer model of tropical clouds .
Researchers obtained the measurements , taken during the dry monsoon in February through March , 1998 and 1999 , during the Indian Ocean Experiment .
INDOEX
To their surprise , researchers found the cloud burning effect of soot in the haze to be much stronger than the globally averaged greenhouse effect due to increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide since the 1800s .
It is only the soot component of pollution that causes this newly discovered cloud burning effect .
Prior research on interactions between aerosols , clouds , and climate focused on other ingredients of aerosol pollution .
These components were found to increase cloudiness and oppose greenhouse warming .
This occurred because increased amounts of water-soluble aerosols produce more numerous and smaller cloud droplets .
Such droplets reflect sunlight more efficiently and are less likely to result in rain .
The cloud burning effects of soot are not unique to the tropics , the researchers say .
Comparable amounts of soot have been measured in other polluted air masses , such as those off the mid-Atlantic coast of the United States .
In another paper , published in the May 4 edition of the journal Nature , V. Ramanathan and S.K. Satheesh of the Center for Clouds , Chemistry , and Climate at Scripps show that particles of soot produced in southern Asia are absorbing significant amounts of sunlight , leading to higher atmospheric temperatures .
C4
" The atmospheric heating over the northern Indian Ocean is surprisingly large compared to other oceanic regions and is comparable in magnitude with that observed over the coastal regions of the Atlantic Ocean , " said Ramanathan .
The Nature authors propose that the disruption caused by the soot aerosols may have several consequences for the region 's climate , including slowing down the natural hydrological cycle and breaking up cloud cover .
Although the researchers documented aerosol particles such as sulfate , nitrate , organics , and ash , the sunlight absorption was largely due to combustion-derived soot .
Ramanathan , who also co-authored the Science paper , warned that both studies must be backed up with further observations . "
While this is an important finding , we should recognize that it is a theoretical model calculation which must be tested against actual measurements .
Much additional field work remains to be completed , " he said .
The authors expect that their recent finding will motivate a new direction of research into aerosol-cloud-climate interactions .
It may lead to further refinements in global climate models and enhance our ability to predict future weather patterns .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Corel Nixes Inprise Acquisition

OTTAWA -- Canadian software developer Corel Corp. and California 's Inprise/Borland Corp. called off their merger plans Tuesday , ending Corel 's tumultuous pursuit of its largest-ever acquisition .
Corel said it had agreed to terminate the deal -- which it earlier claimed would make it a Linux powerhouse -- because of " significant changes " since the merger was announced in February .
" Things change as you go along .
What looks good at one point in time may change in a three-month period of time , " Corel chief executive , Michael Cowpland , told a conference call with analysts and the media . "
That 's the nature of the beast . "
The merger had been criticized because its value -- tied to Corel 's stock price on Nasdaq -- had shrunk more than 70 percent since the deal was announced February 7 .
Corel stock has slipped from 20 before the deal was struck to a closing trade of 5-13/32 Monday , dragging down the value of the deal to $ 290.5 million from $ 1.07 billion .
Neither firm will pay a termination fee and reciprocal stock option plans have been canceled .
Inprise/Borland had faced a $ 29.5 million walk-away fee .
The announcement follows a second independent review of the deal ordered by Inprise/Borland after Corel warned in a security filing it could face a cash shortage within three months if the merger did not proceed or it did not find alternate sources of funding .
Analysts and investors are now asking how Corel will overcome its cash crunch and what terms it might face to secure money .
The company does not have a line of credit with a bank .
" It is a bad thing that this deal did not go through for Corel .
...
They really needed this deal , " said Duncan Stewart , fund manager at Tera Capital Corp.
" Why do I feel like the guy who 's standing there at the altar with a crestfallen look on his face who turns to the best man as the bride high-tails it to the hills and says , ' Oh well , at least I can start dating again '"
Louis Kates , technology analyst at Credifinance Securities Ltd. , said Corel could have benefited from the penalty fee .
" Not only is that clearly negative , but it suggests that it 's either not one-sided -- because if it was one-sided they 'd have to pay the kill fee -- or there was something that was discovered that allowed them to avoid the kill fee , " said Kates .
Inprise/Borland
Corel said the deal 's termination leaves it free to evaluate financing offers it had recently received .
The company refused to indicate if it is considering debt , equity , or merger deals to raise cash .
" We have a number of different options being presented to us and we are evaluating each of those on their merit and in the coming immediate time frame we 'll make appropriate announcements to indicate which we 've chosen , " said John Blaine , Corel 's chief financial officer .
Corel also said Tuesday it planned to cut about $ 40 million in costs on an annual basis .
The company did not say whether that would mean job cuts .
Corel may provide further details on its cost cutting and financing in late June when it reports the result for its second quarter , ending May 31 .
Corel stock gained more than 20 percent on the news , surging to CN$10.15 on the Toronto Stock Exchange before slipping back to CN$8.75 , a gain of 70 Canadian cents .
On Nasdaq the issue hit an intraday high of 6-7/8 but slid back to 5-13/16 , a gain of 13/32 .
Inprise/Borland shares made less significant gains , picking up 6/32 to trade at 6-1/32 on Nasdaq .
" Two possible explanations for why Corel stock is up : One of them is that everybody knew the deal was going to fail so it 's better to find out that it fails now , " said Stewart .
There may also be market misinterpretation of a Corel statement that it can now evaluate " offers of alternative financing . "
" I do not think it means that Intel 's going to buy them , " Stewart said . "
I think it means that other people have offered to raise them money .
But I do n't think the market 's reading it that way -- I think the market 's reading it like a takeover . "




Big Iron to Stage a Comeback

IBM has Linux up and running on one of the biggest computers on the planet .
Big Blue is expected to announce on Tuesday that it has Linux running natively on the S/390 , a monster mainframe that is among the most powerful computers available -- second only to the supercomputers that simulate nuclear test blasts .
IBM is hoping Linux will breathe new life into its mainframe business , which built the company but has been relegated to a back seat over the last decade by the advent of PCs and low-cost servers .
Ironically , IBM hopes to beat these upstarts at their own game .
Thanks to the massive number-crunching power of the S/390 mainframe , it is capable of running hundreds of virtual servers simultaneously .
" Instead of buying 200 Intel boxes , you could run 200 Linux servers on a single mainframe , " said Greg Burke , an IBM vice president .
About the size of a big commercial refrigerator , the S/390 is a super fast , crash-proof workhorse used for things like telecom systems , airline ticketing , and big corporate networks , IBM said .
" It 's the mother of all servers , without a doubt , " said IBM spokesman James Sciales .
The machine , which features up to a dozen 637-MHz processors that between them can execute a mind-boggling 1,614 million instructions per second , in tests ran up to 41,400 separate copies of Linux simultaneously .
However , because of performance considerations , customers would typically run only 200 or 300 separate virtual servers , IBM said .
IBM is hoping to pitch the mainframe to dot coms and Web-based businesses like ISPs and ASPs .
According to IBM , running a single mainframe can be more cost-effective than a server farm .
For example , IBM said it typically costs a company more than $ 10,000 for every minute its servers are down .
Microsoft Windows NT boxes are offline for an average 85 hours per year and Unix systems 35 hours a year , while the S/390s is offline for less than five minutes , according to IBM .
Depending on options and support , a mainframe installation can cost anywhere between $ 50,000 and several million dollars , IBM said .
Nonetheless , because mainframes require almost no maintenance and are easy to set up and configure , a single expensive machine running multiple copies of Linux is more cost-effective than hundreds of inexpensive boxes running Linux , IBM said .
" When you take all these things into account , there are considerable cost savings , " said IBM 's Burke .
However , David Floyer , vice president of research at market research firm ITCentrix , said IBM might have a hard time convincing buyers raised on Windows to get a mainframe .
" Most people in dot coms have n't even heard of mainframes , let alone know what one is , " he said .




Boom in Europe E-Biz Seen

Not all the Internet bulls live on the left side of the Pond .
There 's a lot of rah-rah-rah coming from Europe , too .
The latest glad tidings are contained in a study forecasting that Europe 's online shopping population will hit 100 million by 2004 .
With 19 million Europeans currently punching the " Buy now " button , that 's no less than a fivefold increase in three years , plus change .
" This will have a huge impact on buying patterns for consumers and businesses , " said Datamonitor 's Impact Report , which tracks Internet trends in Germany , France , Britain , Spain , and Sweden . " large changes to business models and manifold opportunities for software and hardware companies as content providers and device manufacturers play on the digital trend . "
It brings
The report said that 49 percent of Europe 's potential consumer spending power is already online , either at home or at work .
Concluded Datamonitor : " This European wealth online is set to grow as interactive services go mainstream . "
- - -
New life : ICO Global Communications , the satellite communications company left in an alley after filing for Chapter 11 last year , has re-emerged as New ICO , thanks to a $ 1.2 billion shot of adrenalin from a group of U.S. and international investors led by telecom pioneer Craig McCaw .
The new company will eschew satellite technology , which nearly killed it , and turn its attention to the wireless Internet market .
McCaw lavished praise on New ICO , which emerged from bankruptcy protection Wednesday .
" I congratulate New ICO , its employees , and its partners ... on all the hard work required to facilitate the company 's transformation , " McCaw said . "
We appreciate having the opportunity to learn from the pioneering efforts of others in reconfiguring New ICO for the market . "
McCaw 's holding company , ICO-Teledesic Global Limited , will propose a merger with New ICO , probably next week , a press release said .
- - -
Compaq means business : A new line of powerful computers designed specifically to run e-commerce websites was introduced Tuesday by Compaq Computer , which expects sales to generate revenues of $ 1 billion this year .
The computers -- known collectively by the nickname Wildfire -- can handle large numbers of transactions simultaneously , a boon in the fast-growing Internet commerce market .
The Unix-based computers , officially known as the AlphaServer GS series , can run anywhere from eight to 32 processors at the same time .
This allows them to handle millions of customer transactions at major websites , phone companies , and brokerages , Compaq said .
Compaq said that it expects to double its share in targeted Unix markets in the next three to four years .
- - -
Fetch : Oracle , the database giant , is coming out with new software that makes it easier for users find almost any kind of file -- text , video , or image -- in the labyrinth of their Windows-based PCs .
The Internet File System , or iFS , is available free to customers of Oracle 's 8i software program and will be included with current versions of 8i , the company said .
Basically , iFS supplants the slower file management system that is part of the Windows operating system .
" It 's hard to find stuff that 's even on your PC , " said Larry Ellison , Oracle 's chairman said . "
Your data now is just very fragmented .
...
It 's like having 1,000 different file cabinets all in different cities . "
- - -
Still clicking : DoubleClick , the Internet advertising service that got its ears pinned back for snooping around in people 's personal data , is still making very public amends .
The company 's latest move was to round up some security experts and authorities in the field of online privacy to form a board that will help DoubleClick improve its privacy procedures .
DoubleClick also said that from now on , it will only do business with Web publishers that have privacy policies in place .
Since getting busted , DoubleClick has now strengthened its own privacy policy , hird a " chief privacy officer " , and set up a special panel of experts to keep it on the straight and narrow .
former New York City consumer affairs commissioner Jules Polonetsky
Mea culpa , indeed .
- - -
Boo hoo : Boo.com , the British online clothier , was struggling to stay afloat Wednesday as it tried to secure further financing .
Reuters reported that the retailer was in " do-or-die negotiations " with investors to a avert a call to receivers .
Boo.com has been widely reported to be on the verge of financial collapse .
The company reportedly needs $ 30 million -- and fast -- to keep its virtual doors open .
- - -
Barbie gets her man : Robert Eckert , who resigned Tuesday as CEO of Kraft Foods , will take over as head of Mattel , Inc. , maker of the Barbie doll and the largest toy manufacturer in the world .
Eckert replaces Jill Barad , who was forced out in February after a turbulent three years at the helm .
Mattel has struggled through a recent succession of poor quarterly earnings , stemming largely from its ill-advised acquisition last year of The Learning Co. , a software developer .
Mattel is still trying to unload that dog , without success .
- - -
Briefly told : Qwest Communications will be a major provider of local dial-up Internet access to subscribers of Microsoft 's MSN portal .
...
Cognos Inc. , a Canadian software developer , has won a contract to provide DirecTV with software used to analyze corporate data .




Mad Staffers Scrutinized on Net

So you think the company you work for sucks and you want the world to know it .
Is it your right to say so online , hiding behind a pseudonym , free from the threat of reprisal from your boss ?
Yup , say privacy advocates .
And plenty of employees do air their bitter views online , judging from the nasty tenor of some of the investor message board discussions at places like Yahoo and AOL .
In the last year , however , an increasing number of those employees have received a nasty surprise -- a subpoena from the spurned company claiming the poster has defamed it .
" A lot of companies are monitoring these message boards all the time .
When they see something they do n't like , they instantly file a lawsuit , " said Rob Lytle , a trade-secret attorney for Howrey Simon Arnold & White in Houston .
" There are dozens and dozens of these cases , " agreed Chris Hansen , an attorney with the ACLU .
Problem is , say critics , many of the cases are bogus -- the suing company is filing the case solely to unmask its online enemies .
To do that , it issues subpoenas to the online company that hosts the message board or chat room , asking for the identity of the alleged defamers .
Many Net companies , including the biggest message board hosters like Yahoo , will ultimately hand over a user 's name in response to subpoena .
" Once the company knows who you are , they can fire you if you 're an employee , or they can intimidate you with their big corporate lawyers , " said Megan Gray , an attorney for Baker & Hostetler in Los Angeles .
That 's not good for free speech , said the ACLU 's Hansen .
" Often the case is dismissed after the identity is disclosed , but by then it 's too late .
A lot of speech is going to be chilled here , because there 's such an imbalance of power . "
Gray currently represents an employee who was fired for posting anonymous messages critical of his company on the Yahoo message boards under the name " aquacool . "
When the company subpoenaed Yahoo to turn over aquacool 's real name , Yahoo complied without first notifying the poster himself .
Gray would not disclose aquacool 's real name
Once the company found out who aquacool was , they fired him .
Aquacool is now suing Yahoo , charging that the company violated his constitutional right to privacy by turning over his personal information without notifying him .
Yahoo , meanwhile , has changed its subpoena policy .
It now notifies users and gives them two weeks to seek legal assistance before it turns over their personal info to suing companies .
Aquacool will have a tough time winning his case , experts say .
There are no specific laws that govern the way a Net company must respond to a subpoena from a non-government plaintiff .
Whether or not aquacool prevails , the larger tyranny of frivolous suits and subpoenas will remain , say free speech and privacy advocates .
In most cases , all that 's required to issue a valid subpoena is a lawyer 's signature .
No judge need first review the underlying case .




Analysts : Corel Needs New Plan

OTTAWA -- Canadian software developer Corel must find a new cure to resuscitate its moribund business now that its largest-ever acquisition has been killed , analysts said .
They suggested that if the embattled firm can not quickly revive its business , the company may be forced to sell off its operations as a whole or in parts .
Corel , which Tuesday said it agreed with California 's Inprise/Borland Corp. to abandon merger plans in the face of mounting shareholder criticism , faces a solo future that is fraught with challenges .
The company , best known for its word-processing and graphics software until last year 's leap into the Linux market , is grappling with a cash crunch , stalled sales for its older product lines , looming cutbacks and a growing credibility gap .
Chief Executive Michael Cowpland has reinvented his company in the past -- embracing such technologies as video conferencing and Java -- but analysts suggest that trick will be increasingly difficult to pull off for skeptical investors .
" He 's pulled rabbits out of the hat before -- I just do n't know how many rabbits are left in the hat , " said David Wright , technology analyst at BMO Nesbitt Burns in Toronto .
Wright , who has an " underperform " rating on Corel , dropped his stock target Wednesday to C$6 from C$12 on the Toronto Stock Exchange and to 4 from 8 on the Nasdaq .
Corel shares slipped 75 Canadian cents on the Toronto bourse to C$8.15 and on Nasdaq the issue shed 9/16 to 5-7/16 .
Corel is caught in a Catch-22 , said Jean W. Orr , analyst at Bluestone Capital Partners in New York .
The company desperately needs new technology to generate sales , but to fund that development it must first turn a profit .
" It 's in danger of becoming history , " said Orr , a long-time Corel analyst . "
Three or four years ago they were chasing too many things ... now the initiative is in the Linux area and I think that is too narrow . "
Cowpland told the media Tuesday that his company was not mulling over any takeover offers , nor was it discussing its own acquisitions or mergers .
" Being acquired is the most likely kind of outcome .
At this point what other options do they seriously have ? " said Barry Jaruzelski , vice president of consumers and electronics practice at consulting firm Booz-Allen & Hamilton . "
This is probably an understatement , but he 's in a tough spot . "
Cowpland




Claims Axed in PlayStation Suit

SAN FRANCISCO -- A federal judge has dismissed seven claims in a lawsuit filed by Sony against Connectix , a computer products company it accused of illegally developing and distributing software for using Sony 's PlayStation games on home computers .
Judge Charles Legge of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Tuesday dismissed Sony 's claims that Connectix violated trademark and copyright laws with its Virtual Game Station software .
Connectix CEO Roy McDonald touted the ruling as an affirmation that " both copyright and trademark law favor broad consumer choice . "
But Legge did n't dismiss all of Sony 's claims .
He still has to issue a final ruling on charges that Connectix stole trade secrets and unfairly competed with Sony .
Sony also has a separate patent infringement lawsuit against Connectix pending in federal court .
Legge did not release a written decision , choosing instead to issue his ruling verbally from the bench .
" We are prepared to move forward with the misappropriation of trade secrets claim , " said Molly Smith , spokeswoman for Sony Computer Entertainment America .
Sony tentatively expects the case to go to trial around September .
Sony sued Connectix last year for making and selling Virtual Game Station software , which lets users play Sony games on a regular computer without buying a Sony PlayStation console .
Sony claimed the company infringed its copyright by using the software program that operates PlayStation in its computer application .
The electronics giant also claimed that Connectix tarnished the PlayStation trademark by selling the rival Virtual Game Station product .
Earlier this year , the court issued a ruling upholding Connectix 's right to use a process known as reverse engineering to develop a product for playing PlayStation games on home computers .




Canadian Data : Northern Exposure

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
The Privacy Commissioner of Canada is concerned about a government database that contains highly personal information about more than 30 million Canadians .
The Longitudinal Labor Force File , maintained by Canada 's federal government , contains information on individuals collected from tax returns , child tax benefit payments , welfare files , federal job programs , job training and employment services , employment insurance files and the nation health insurance master file .
Bruce Phillips said that any citizen who has had any contact with governmental departments and/or programs can assume that his or her records are contained in the Longitudinal Labor Force File .
There are pending proposals to include data from other government programs , including Canada 's Student Loan Program , the Canada Pension Plan and the Old Age Security Program .
" Privacy commissioners have assured Canadians that there was no single federal government file , or profile about them , " said Phillips . "
We were wrong -- or not right enough for comfort . "
Employment and Immigration Canada began collecting the information about 15 years ago .
The database is now maintanied by Human Resources Development Canada .
Although Phillips said he does not question the need to collect information to evaluate the success of Canada 's social benefit programs , he firmly believes Canadians have the right to know what information is being collected and how it is being used .
The HRDC 's website offers a brief description of the database but Phillips said it not detailed enough .
" We should know they 're doing it and they should have to do it under very tightly written legal restraints about the usage of that information , " said Phillips .
A spokesman for the HRDC did not return calls for comment .
However , Bob Wilson , HRDC 's director-general of evaluation and data Development , has said in the past that the organization is aware of Phillips ' concerns and is taking them seriously .
But he said that it is equally important to Canadians to have the data collected and used for evaluation so that governmental programs can meet citizens ' needs .
Wilson said that individual identities are protected by ' masking ' technology , and only a very small number of HRDC officials have access to the complete contents of the database .
But he also admitted that the ' masked ' data is sometimes given to private-sector firms for use in their own research projects .




There 's Gold in Them Thar Plants

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- Extracting gold from plants sounds like modern-day alchemy , but New Zealand scientist Chris Anderson has managed to do it in the laboratory .
Now he plans to test it in the field .
" I 'm feeling very confident that we can move to the next step but only time will tell , " says Anderson , 26 , who graduates this week with a Ph.D. in earth science from Massey University .
Hundreds of plants naturally accumulate metals from the soil in which they grow ; nickel , for instance , can accumulate in plants and can be extracted .
Anderson 's academic supervisor , Professor Robert Brooks , named this process " phytomining " back in 1977 .
However , metals such as zinc , lead , and gold have been exceptions .
The challenge for scientists has been to make those very dense metals -- gold included -- more soluble so they can extract them from the soil .
Anderson says he 's been able to do it .
Anderson was inspired about four years ago , when researchers in the United States successfully made lead soluble enough for plants to soak up . "
We thought , if you can do it for lead , why can n't you do it for other metals ? " he said .
A year later , Anderson and fellow student Brett Robinson managed to make gold soluble enough that plants did draw it out of the earth . "
For about a month there was so much gold in the measuring machine that we could n't use , " Anderson said .
the machine
Further laboratory and greenhouse trials ensued : " We can definitely get the gold into the plants , " he said .
Anderson plans a field trial on a couple of hectares of tailings at an abandoned mine near Te Aroha in New Zealand 's North Island . "
Currently , there 's nothing growing on it , " he said , adding he hopes to obtain a kilogram of gold from each hectare of tailings .
Anderson will sow quick-growing plants such as oilseed rape .
When they reach their maximum weight , he 'll add the sulfur concoction to the soil .
This makes any small traces of gold soluble for about 10 days .
The plant soaks up the gold , and once the plant starts to wither , it is dried and then burned to extract the metal .
If Anderson 's research is proved in the field trials , he sees enormous environmental applications .
For example , in South America , many tailings contain both leftover gold and the mercury used to extract the metal .
" We have people living on these quite barren soils and they try to recover food crops from them , " he said . "
So we are saying to them , let 's clean up the environment .
And the gold that comes out of the process pays you to do it , so you 've actually got an income coming in. "




Worm Wreaked Gov't Havoc

WASHINGTON -- The Love Bug computer virus crippled some government networks for as long as six days , highlighting the potential for " catastrophic damage " from cyber attack , congressional technology experts said on Thursday .
In testimony to a Senate Banking subcommittee , the General Accounting Office , the audit arm of Congress , said eight of 20 surveyed federal agencies reported email outages lasting longer than a day .
At the Department of Defense , home to about one-third of the government 's 6,300-plus most critical networks , " enormous efforts were expended containing and recovering from this virus , " Jack Brock , the top GAO information management expert , said .
" Military personnel from across the department were pulled from their primary responsibilities to assist , " he said , adding some computers required complete software " reloads . "
The Love Bug and as many as 20 copycat programs began wreaking havoc May 4 as a self-replicating email attachment on computers running Microsoft Outlook , a software program .
In its original form , the virus spread as a message containing " ILOVEYOU " in its subject line .
Once opened by double clicking on it , the message sent copies of itself to everyone in a recipient 's electronic address book , clogging networks worldwide .
The software scourge also deleted pictures , music and video files and installed a password stealing program .
A computer student in the Philippines has said he may have accidentally released the virus .
In his report to the subcommittee on Financial Institutions , Brock said the potential for " more catastrophic damage is significant . "
He said " terrorists could use cyber-based tools and techniques to disrupt military operations , communications networks , and other information systems or networks . "
Potential U.S. foes " are developing a body of knowledge about U.S. systems and about methods to attack these systems , " Brock added , citing the National Security Agency , the Defense Department arm responsible for communications interception .
In the most detailed report to date on the impact on federal networks , the Accounting Office said the Department of Health and Human Services took as long as six days to restore full email services after being swamped with some three million messages .
" If a biological outbreak had occurred simultaneously with this ' Love Bug ' infestation , the health and stability of the nation would have been compromised with the lack of computer network communication , " Brock said , quoting one health official .
Brock said the FBI-led National Infrastructure Protection Center , which heads U.S. efforts to detect and deter cyber threats , was " too late " with its warnings to head off the damage to federal systems .
" Clearly , more needs to be done to enhance the government 's ability to collect , analyze and distribute timely information that can be used by agencies to protect their critical information systems from possible attack , " he said .
The GAO said disruption to federal networks also included :
At least 1,000 files at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration were damaged , and not all could be restored .
The Social Security Administration needed five days to become fully functional and completely remove the virus from its systems .
As of May 10 the Veterans Health Administration had received 7 million " ILOVEYOU " messages .
Recovery at the Labor Department required more than 1,600 employee hours and more than 1,200 outside contractor hours .




College Requires Online App

You are just a click away from becoming college student .
Starting this fall , all students applying to West Virginia Wesleyan College will be required to apply online .
" We just felt that the online application is something that we can expect from students , and we also feel that we can support that , " said Karen Petitto , an instructional technology specialist and professor at the liberal arts college in Buckhannon , West Virginia .
Petitto said that the online application process will help the college cut down on data entry , and allow the officials to automate a lot of the correspondence with students as well .
" We just think this is a great introduction to what we 're all about at Wesleyan , " Petitto said .
The new policy was a logical step in the overall technology plan of the college , Petitto said .
The school -- which has an enrollment of 1,500 students -- already provides all faculty and incoming freshmen with laptops .
Students use the same laptop for the first two years , then receive a newer model after their sophomore year .
The student has the option of buying the laptop from IBM after they graduate .
Admissions recruiters who visit high schools will be able to assist prospective students who want to apply , but do not have computers .
The application , which costs $ 30 , will be available through Embark.com , a site that offers online test preparation in addition to college applications .
The application covers basic information like personal , family , and demographic data , academic record , subject interests , and an optional essay component .
All the information is private and goes only to the college .
Additional information , like high school transcripts and SAT scores , will be requested by the college after the student has applied .
Petitto said the school was happy to turn over the data management process to Embark.com .
" It gets us wonderful data from students right from the start , as opposed to admissions staff re-entering data sent to us from students in all different formats , " Petitto said .
Many universities offer the option of applying online through their own sites , or sites like CollegeNET and CollegeLink.com .
Only one other school , the MIT Sloan School of Management , requires it .
College students also can apply for financial aid and register for courses online at many schools .
But not all educators agree that making online applications mandatory is a good idea .
" We will n't be doing that , " said Paul Thiboutot , the dean of admissions at Carleton College in Northfield , Minnesota . "
We believe in keeping lots of options open for kids that want to apply . "
" I think there 's no harm in making it an option and no value in making it a requirement , " agreed Terry Swenson , the dean of admissions at Colorado College . "
We still have students that are filling out applications by hand , and some who have electronic limitations . "
Nevertheless , the trend towards online applications is growing .
" We saw a 200 percent increase in online undergraduate applications in the last season , " said Andrew Krcik , vice president of marketing for Embark.com . "
We expect that trajectory to continue . "




Did Site Incite Boy 's Murder ?

Internet service provider Verio has dodged a $ 200 million wrongful death and civil rights lawsuit that could have cost the company dearly in image and resources .
The lawsuit , filed Tuesday in U.S. District Court in Boston , alleges that a website incited Charles Jaynes to murder 10-year-old Jeffrey Curley of Cambridge , Massachusetts .
The website in question , Nambla.org , is operated by the North American Man/Boy Love Association , which promotes sex between men and boys .
The lawsuit originally named Verio as a co-defendant .
But Lawrence Frisoli , attorney for the murdered boy 's parents , said Wednesday he would withdraw Verio 's name from the suit and replace it with another undisclosed ISP , which Frisoli said was the one that provided Internet services to NAMBLA at the time Jaynes and another man killed the boy on October 1 , 1997 .
Verio hosted nambla.org until Wednesday -- when it quietly took down the website .
Officials there said it had nothing to do with the organization when Curley died .
" They gave me sufficient documentation to show they did not provide Internet service at the time , " Frisoli said from his Cambridge office , where he was answering a barrage of phone calls Wednesday afternoon .
Verio officials confirmed the company was no longer involved in the lawsuit .
" We are simply not liable in this particular situation , " said Verio spokeswoman Mona Peloquin . "
We do expect that dismissal to be formally filed later . "
Wednesday
Frisoli says he knows who was providing NAMBLA with Internet service prior to October 1 , the day when Jaynes allegedly paid a visit to a branch of the Boston Public Library , got one last dose of the NAMBLA website , and proceeded -- with the help of another man who also is serving a life sentence for the crime -- to kidnap , brutalize , and kill the boy before sealing his body in a plastic container and dumping it into a river in Maine .
Frisoli said he plans to issue a subpoena against the ISP imminently .
He would not name the company , but said it was a big player .
" The next one 's got as much money as Verio , " he said .
Maybe .
But legal experts say this case does n't stand a chance in the courts , anyway .
Eric Freedman , a constitutional law professor at Hofstra Law School , says NAMBLA 's writings are protected by the First Amendment .
" The prospects of this lawsuit are zilch , " he said . "
I think it 's a confident prediction that it is and should be going nowhere . "
In order for NAMBLA to be found liable for the boy 's death , the plaintiffs would have to prove that the material published constituted a direct incitement to imminent violence .
It 's a difficult stipulation to meet , Freedman said .




Napster Users Majority on Campus

LOS ANGELES -- Seventy-three percent of college students surveyed by research firm Webnoize said they used Napster 's controversial song-swap software at least once a month , Webnoize said Monday .
While the survey of 4,294 students at 10 New England colleges painted a grim picture for record companies , who have sued Napster for allegedly encouraging piracy on the Internet , the poll had positive data for record labels as well .
Webnoize , which will release the full report next month , said 58.5 percent of those polled who used Napster said they would be willing to pay $ 15 a month to use the service .
" The more often they used it the more willing they were to pay to use it , which suggests there are probably ways for the music companies to make money in this way , " said Webnoize analyst Ric Dube , referring to Napster 's file sharing system .
" Right now , the music industry is looking at subscription models , " as a way to derive music from online distribution .
Dube further noted the survey asked people how much they spend on music monthly , with 31.9 percent of all those polled saying they spent less than $ 10 a month .
" If the music industry could embrace the Napster concept and get people to spend $ 15 a month on a subscription basis , they 'd convert some people who spend less than $ 10 a month and could grow the music market , " he said .
Last week , a recording industry trade group claimed an initial victory in its copyright battle against Napster after a U.S. District Court Judge Marilyn Patel in San Francisco late on Friday rejected Napster 's claim that it is a " mere conduit , " and denied its motion for a summary judgment .
Napster has claimed it is merely a service provider and not liable for the actions of its users .
Napster 's software works like a co-op , allowing users to trade their library of MP3 files , a compression format used to convert music on CDs into computer files .
MP3.com lost a previous copyright case .
San Mateo , California-based Napster also has been sued by individual artists like Metallica and rapper Dr. Dre .




Dr. Dre Raps Napster Users

LOS ANGELES -- Rapper Dr. Dre on Wednesday delivered to Napster a list of 239,612 users he claims violated his copyrights by downloading his music using the company 's song-swap software .
Napster recently barred from its service users who were identified by heavy-metal group Metallica as having infringed on that band 's copyrights .
Metallica , Dr. Dre , and the trade group the Recording Industry Association of America all are suing San Mateo , California-based Napster for copyright infringement .
Privately held Napster works like a co-op , enabling users to swap songs by letting them trade libraries of MP3 files , a compression format that converts CDs into computer files .
Dr. Dre said he informed Napster he would prefer the company just delete his songs from its service , in which case no user need be denied access to Napster .
Napster is required under law to bar users if it is proven they are infringing copyrights using its service .
Napster said it will review the list and delete the users but not the songs .
" Napster is able to respond by disabling users but not by excluding particular songs or artists , " said a Napster spokesman .
" It 's important to understand that Napster itself does not make MP3 material available on the Internet , but provides software to allow its users to make MP3 material available to each other and for downloading , " the spokesman said .
Dr. Dre 's documentation lists the specific description of each alleged infringement on his copyrights and the specific users involved in those violations .
RIAA last week claimed an initial victory in its copyright battle against Napster , which it alleges is a haven for music piracy on the Internet .
U.S. District Court Judge Marilyn Patel in San Francisco late on Friday rejected Napster 's claim that it is a " mere conduit , " and denied its motion for a summary judgment .
The RIAA represents all the big record companies , including Seagram Co. Ltd. 's Universal Music ; Bertelsmann AG 's BMG ; Sony Corp. 's Sony Music ; and Time Warner Inc. 's Warner Music Group , which plans to combine its unit into a joint venture with EMI .




Hacker Rails Against New Worm

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
A computer hacker from Australia has the sneaking suspicion that someone copied key aspects of a nondestructive worm he circulated last week , and turned it into the " NewLove " virus that panicked , among others , the FBI and Janet Reno .
But even if this week 's virus scare did n't use the source of his " ILOVEYOUTOO " worm , " Valiant " thinks the real culprits are naive , callow computer users who do n't know enough not to open unsolicited email attachments .
Also earning villain points from Valiant are media outlets that wildly jump on any information that contains the word " virus . "
" Valiant , " the founder of Australian hacker group Halcon , sent his harmless " ILOVEYOUTOO " worm code to Wired last week as a demonstration of how to script a variant of a virus .
He said " NewLove " bears a " remarkable resemblance " to his own worm .
Valiant 's virus had no " payload , " so it was unable to damage computer systems .
Valiant said he released it only to track the potential damage that might be caused by another worm outbreak , after people had been warned not to open attachments in the wake of the " Love Bug " worm .
He notes that . vbs coding , the method used in the latest rash of worm attacks , is " very open source " and it 's easy to modify a benign script into one that delivers a nasty bug .
" I 've never written a malicious virus ; however , I have written up a lot of small virii in the early hours of the morning simply to trace how many stupid users have default settings of IRC clients , email clients , and other such features of standard Microsoft operating systems , " he wrote in an email .
Valiant believes that " NewLove " is " just another big slap in the face to the moron computer users out there . "
He thinks that the recent outbreak of viruses is directly related to the " sickening amount " of attention viruses are getting in the media , and the " fact that every user out there likes to think they 're computer geniuses , therefore the field of computer professionals has dwindled and now we have an IT industry run by MS weenies with not a clue about any other platform . "
He points to his own business , Raptor Web Services as an example of non-pros stepping on toes , saying that " school kids " can use FrontPage and pose as professionals .
" Then these unprofessionals ... jump in and attempt to spread the FUD that is behind most IT decisions these days . "
Fear , Uncertainly , Despair
Releasing a malicious virus is a " relatively lame " thing to do , Valiant said .
" It 's the fastest way to get the world 's attention to a degree that evidence will be made available to the people who can put you away for a long time .
Damaging gets you locked in a cell with a 300-pound guy named Mary . "
other people 's computers




Site Brings Fiji Coup to World

CANBERRA -- The World Wide Web 's dramatic impact on global information flow was thrown into sharp relief on Friday when a local website in remote Fiji became the world 's main window on a coup attempt in the South Pacific nation .
The site , fijilive.com , run by local Internet service provider Webmasters Ltd. , kept delivering news updates after most phone lines to the island were apparently cut -- just as a group of armed men stormed parliament .
And , its chat forum reflected the racial tensions that have been mounting between indigenous Fijians and Indians who form about 43 percent of the 770,000 population .
" We could all see it coming , " someone identified as Gunderson told the forum , hours after coup leader George Speight launched the attempt to topple Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry 's Indian-dominated government . "
Not a good day for Fiji . "
" For the past 12 months you people have adopted this high and mighty attitude ...
You lit the fire and now you want to put it out , " Kai Colo told the chat forum .
The Web site leading the coverage on the coup is run by Fijian Internet service provider Webmasters Ltd. in Suva .
Webmasters described fijilive.com as the largest and most popular Web site in Fiji and the South Pacific .
Heinz Shurmann-Zeggel , head of South Pacific research at Amnesty International 's Secretariat in London , said he regarded fijilive.com as independent of the coup leaders .
" I think it 's crucial , it 's vital , it 's something the coup leaders may not be so easily able to suppress , " Shurmann-Zeggel told Reuters . "
If they want to control news going out of Fiji , I think they 'll have a hard time . "
Webmasters says it also runs Web sites including FijiOnSale.com for e-commerce , the Fiji Football Association 's official Web site FijiFootball.com , travel resorts Web sites , and PacificEmail.com , the Pacific 's free Web-based email services .
An unsigned response from the site to an email inquiry from Reuters said fijilive.com had been operating for 14 months , starting just before Fiji 's last election .
" It is an independent site , linked to the independent The Review news and business magazine , " the email said . "
The news is written by journalists from The Review ...
We have a reporter in parliament at the moment . "
Webmasters said that as of December 1999 , fijilive was registering close to 4,500 visitors daily from a registered user-base of 5,500 , most of them Australians , Americans , New Zealanders , and Fijians .
" The arrival of the Internet in the Pacific has drastically changed the human rights situation there , " said Amnesty 's Shurmann-Zeggel . "
People are getting information about their own rights , about their own laws ... they are able to complain . "




Let 's Go to the Emerald City

Wage slaves in New York 's Silicon Alley may have designs on one day supplanting California 's Silicon Valley as THE tech mecca , but if greed is a factor -- and when is n't it ?
-- a new survey suggests they should actually be looking farther north , to Seattle .
That 's where you 'll find the highest-paid tech workers in the country , according to a nationwide survey released this week by the American Electronics Association .
Boosted by lucrative software jobs and a bullish stock market , the average technology worker in Washington earned an average of $ 105,000 in 1998 , the last year for which there was comprehensive data .
That easily beat both California and New York .
In fact , New Jersey workers finished a distant second , earning a paltry $ 68,700 .
California placed third at $ 66,900 , Virginia came in at $ 66,000 , and Connecticut rounded out the top five at $ 65,400 .
Manhattan finished out of the money , which really comes as no surprise considering that in New York , content -- not technology -- is king .
And as any unappreciated writer or editor can tell you , there 's no money in that .
Oh , well .
There 's always waiting tables .
- - -
To merge or not to merge : WorldCom and Sprint said Thursday they remain confident that their $ 115 billion merger will win regulatory approval despite published reports that antitrust officials will try and block the deal .
According to the Washington Post , Stephen Axinn , the prominent antitrust lawyer hired by the Justice Department to head the merger review , has expressed deep concerns about the deal .
The Wall Street Journal , meanwhile , quoted lawyers and industry executives as saying federal antitrust officials have recommended blocking the merger .
Confident or not , both companies ' shares were down on the news , and debt-market sources said WorldCom may have to delay its minimum $ 3.5 billion four-part bond sale as a result of the reports .
- - -
Not-so-great Danes : NetCom , a Norwegian telecom firm , continues to oppose a $ 1.6 billion takeover bid by Denmark 's Tele Danmark , even after the Danes sweetened the offer on Thursday .
Tele Danemark raised its offer for outstanding shares in NetCom from 305.66 crowns to 310 crowns .
$ 33.9
The Norwegians were unimpressed .
" The adjustment does not change my opinion of Tele Danmark 's bid , " said Terje Christoffersen , NetCom 's chief executive . "
I do n't see any reason to call a new board meeting to re-evaluate the bid after this minor adjustment . "
NetCom 's directors have already advised shareholders to reject Tele Danemark 's bid .
- - -
Boo-hoo-hoo : Boo.com , at death 's door on Wednesday , is offically dead .
The British online clothier became Europe 's first major dot-com failure when it was forced into receivership Thursday after the money ran out .
Nevertheless , liquidators said they had already received more than 30 inquiries from potential buyers .
" We are seeking to sell the business in whole or possibly in its two constituent parts as a going concern , " said provisional liquidators Nick McLoughlin and Phil Wallace in a statement .
- - -
Food at your fingertips : Zagat.com , the restaurant and lodging survey , is providing its content on AT&T 's Digital PocketNet service .
Zagat Mobile Channel , a wireless version of zagat.com , is the first U.S. launch of Zagat content on a wireless carrier .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Real 's Easy Listening

The ongoing PC music player battle continued Monday .
RealNetworks is expected to launch the latest version of its Entertainment Center at its annual streaming media conference in San Jose .
The newest application being offered is the RealDownload 4 -- which the company acquired from NetZip -- a virtual music butler that will go out on the Internet and retrieve music .
The entertainment player also includes an upgraded version of the RealJukebox and RealPlayer .
The announcement comes as RealNetworks , which has dominated Microsoft 's Window 's Media player and AOL 's WinAmp , has seen its lead in that market begin to shrink .
Still , nearly 90 million people have downloaded the last two versions of the RealPlayer .
This packaged suite of software signals a new move in PC players , said Jeremy Schwarz , senior analyst for media and entertainment for Forrester Research .
" As these different applications start to come together , I think more people will begin to see more people using all of the players , " he said .
A recent Forrester study found that 56 percent of online users are using some sort of media player , but only 13 percent were using jukeboxes , which help users manage their personal music files .
" What is significant is that Microsoft and RealNetworks seem to be bringing functionality for different products together , " Schwarz said . "
That helps people manage their music by dealing with streaming , download , and playlists .
By making these tools easy to use and removing the difficulties of dealing with multiple formats , more mainstream users are going to start using all the players . "
The Entertainment application offers new services that should help users better maintain their entertainment files .
The player gives users direct access to over 2,500 terrestrial and Internet radio stations , by including embedded links directly in the player .
Before , the stations could only be accessed through Real 's website .
The media search function has also been beefed up to return better results .
If users are looking for a particular interview or clip , the engine will now call up just the section desired instead of pulling up the entire video .
The jukebox now automatically formats music files from a hard drive into a compatible codec for portable devices .




Tainted Rapeseed Ruckus ?

PARIS -- The European rapeseed market on Friday shrugged off news that thousands of hectares of the crop across Europe had been accidentally planted with seeds containing genetically modified material .
GM
The seeds , which were thought to have been GM-free , were imported from Canada by seed company Advanta and sown in Britain , France , Germany , and Sweden .
Traders said even if the affected rapeseed were destroyed , as anti-GM activists have urged , the effect on future supply would be minimal .
The seeds were reported to have been sown on 600 hectares in France , where the total 2,000 rapeseed area was pegged earlier this month at 1.24 million hectares .
But traders said the issue could still affect prices over the coming weeks depending on how government authorities and foreign customers reacted to the disclosure .
" If importers ever became worried about traces of GM material showing up in their purchases and demanded testing , that could annoy the European market , " one French trader said .
But traders played down the chances of that happening .
Big foreign customers like China and Pakistan were already buying oilseeds from countries like Canada and the United States , where there is limited segregation of GM and non-GM varieties .
" Buyers in foreign countries really do n't care about this , " a second trader said . "
I hope that this accident serves as an example of what can happen and that we can just move on . "
By early afternoon on Friday , Paris rapeseed futures were mostly untraded .
The front-month August contract was up 0.25 euro at 195.25 euros per ton .




Lessig 's Lesson : Beware AT&T

AMSTERDAM -- America 's influence on Europe and the possible resurgence of an old monopoly threaten the thriving Internet .
The dire warnings came from Harvard law professor Lawrence Lessig , who was speaking at the Ninth International World Wide Web conference .
He began his speech by playing to the international crowd , damning " the extraordinary blindness that rages in my country . "
the United States
At an e-commerce conference recently , Lessig listened to Net entrepreneurs calling for government to stay out of the Internet and to refrain from regulating it or taxing it .
But at the same time , he said , they were boasting about their patent protections .
" I wanted to scream , ' How can you say that ?
What do you think a patent is but a government-backed monopoly that will extend for 20 years ?
' " he said . "
If I were n't this pathetic , comfortable , milquetoast coward , I would have screamed . "
If government continues to listen to these businesses and their lobbyists , Lessig fears it will continue to build into the network -- in terms of laws and the software code -- restrictions that will crimp innovation .
And which businesses are the biggest threats ?
Surprisingly , Lessig did n't point to Redmond or Silicon Valley , but to an old antitrust target .
Lessig has been considered a foe by Microsoft , which successfully had him removed from working for the government during the early stages of the antitrust proceedings .
" In a bizarre twist of history , we 're watching as the new AT&T buys up fast pipe in this country , " Lessig said , and the company is building up controls just like the old AT&T " so that network owners will decide what kind of apps will run . "
Lessig next gave a short history lesson on network architectures and politics .
When one company controlled the telecommunications network in the United States , he said , innovation was tightly controlled .
Any new feature on the network had to be approved by that company , the entity with a vested interest in maintaining the current arrangement .
He called the U.S. government 's 1984 breakup of AT&T " the single most important event in innovation of the Internet . "
It gave birth to " a network that builds destruction into its architecture : destruction of the old , embrace of the new .
...
Innovation works best when new ideas do n't need to apologize . "
Unfortunately , Washington is focused on the battle of the last decade : control of the operating system . "
While we 've been fighting a battle against a threat of 1990s , the 1990s have ended and this new threat has emerged . "
The threats he outlined relied on a common factor : well-intentioned but clueless lawmakers and bureaucrats in Washington , D.C. , who " like a child riding a bicycle for the first time , they are panicked -- they want to keep doing what they did to make it work . "
but




Call Your Friend , Hear a Pitch

You live in the United States and need to make a long-distance call .
You punch in the number .
Instead of hearing rings , you receive a 21-second pitch on your phone company 's latest sweepstakes contest .
Sound annoying ?
AT&T has been airing similar promotions for nearly five years because , a company official says , " people find them helpful . "
To promote its sponsorship of the upcoming Sydney Olympics , AT&T is currently pumping up a sweepstakes before connecting long-distance callers .
" Just talk 10 minutes or more and you could win a trip to see the 2000 U.S. Olympic team compete in Sydney , or win 7,000 other great prizes , " the voice intones while the call is being placed . "
For details , call 1-800-237-9805 or visit att.com/traveler . "
AT&T spokesman Mark Siegel said the same message plays only twice from a given phone number , and it is not the first of its kind .
AT&T began airing the phone commercials about five years ago to callers trying to connect with parties outside of the United States .
The recording also includes the time of the country being reached .
Pleased with the results of those commercials , AT&T extended them two years ago to include people making calls within the United States .
Siegel said customers who are most likely " to make more international calls " are the ones usually targeted .
The commercials either promote sweepstakes or alternate calling plans and rates , he said .
Siegel admitted some callers request their calls be promotion-free , but " the vast majority find these messages very helpful , very relevant , very useful , " he said .
Customers who request the promotions be stopped can call the operator , who puts in an order form and the promotion is removed from that line .
" We do n't view it as advertising , we view it as providing information to AT&T customers . "
Some AT&T customers beg to differ .
Jason Merriman , a high-tech company administrator who lives in Virginia , was surprised and annoyed when he recently called a friend in Vermont and was greeted by the " 30-second " Olympics ad .
Merriman , who works from home and uses the same number for business and personal phone calls , complained to an AT&T operator who placed an order for the removal of the promotion .
" I pay $ 5.95 a month , " he said about his service , which includes an international rate plan . "
I think paying should exclude me from being part of the commercial , and intrusion of my time . "
Lydia Steinberg , a spokeswoman for one of the company 's competitors , Sprint , said airing commercials before connecting calls is " not something Sprint does and something Sprint does not plan to do . "
A customer service representative for MCI WorldCom expressed surprise at AT&T 's marketing strategy because generally advertisements are aired while clients are on hold -- not before they are connected with a phone number they have dialed .
But marketing experts say AT&T may be on to something .
Even if customers are annoyed by the commercials , they have no choice but to listen to them as they are waiting to be connected , said Sondra Arkin , principal for ProMarket and MHI company .
" We know when advertisers have a captive audience that their message ... is heard , " Arkin said . "
For example , it 's the reason people put advertising on their hold music . "
Arkin admitted AT&T may have to tackle the perception that customers are paying to listen to advertising pitches .
Siegel said the time to air the commercials does not cost callers anything and does not interfere with fax machines or Internet connections .
Still , Merriman -- who lives , works , and calls from home -- was less concerned with the " timeout time " to use either device , than with his own time being wasted .
He said people telecommuting do n't have time to listen to advertisements every time they place long-distance calls .
Kalle Lasn , editor of the online edition of Adbusters -- which uses AT&T long-distance service -- agrees .
" I would be very angry , " Lasn said of the AT&T phone ads . "
I would say there are some customers that may not mind , but by and large most people do mind .
They may not work up to the anger to complain , but that does n't mean they like it . "




Cooler IBM Chips Heat Up Market

NEW YORK -- IBM on Monday unveiled a new line of powerful computers based on breakthroughs it has made in chip design -- technology it will soon use to build processors for other computer makers .
Analysts said the new technology , a combination of silicon-on-insulator transistors and copper wiring , gives IBM 's line of AS/400 servers , computers used to manage Web site functions , a nine month lead on the industry .
Silicon-on-insulator can be used to reduce chip power consumption , which extends the battery life of portable products and reduces the heat generated by computers .
SOI
IBM 's copper technology allows for faster processor speeds .
" One of the critical aspects of getting computers out quickly to boost performance of the Web is to reduce heat , " said Envisioneering analyst Richard Doherty . "
You can only put a certain number of computers in a room before calling someone to put in a new cooling system , which could take months . "
IBM is expected to use the new SOI and copper technologies to make chips for other computer makers .
A source familiar with the products confirmed that IBM will this week unveil an agreement to use its copper and silicon-on-insulator technology to make chips for Hewlett-Packard .
Compaq Computer said IBM will build Compaq 's Alpha line of computer chips used to run its powerful business computers .
" IBM and Compaq have signed an agreement in which IBM will manufacture an Alpha copper chip for Compaq , " said Compaq spokesman Dick Calandrella .
Calandrella did not have details about the value of the deal or how many chips will be manufactured .
Compaq 's line of Alpha chips dates back to the days of Digital Equipment Corp. , acquired by Compaq in 1998 .
When asked if the deal would replace an agreement with Samsung Electronics , which makes the Alpha chips , Calandrella said " Absolutely not .
The chips will be made by both IBM and Samsung . "
Calandrella added that future talks were expected for IBM to also make Alpha chips using its silicon-on-insulator technology , which allows for better performance by using lower power and generating less heat .
SOI
IBM introduced copper chips in volume production in 1998 , and soon after began making the new chips for Apple Computer Inc.
" The strategy so far has worked pretty well , " said Doherty . "
They keep a good percentage of the secret sauce to themselves .
You do n't see IBM supplying SOI to Sun Microsystems Inc. "
leading server provider and IBM rival
IBM said it is also seeking to use the SOI technology to boost the performance of its more powerful Unix server , the RS/6000 S80 , later this year .
" This gives them about a nine month lead on the market , and in a market in which the Internet doubles every hundred days , that 's significant , " said Doherty .
" Other companies have also claimed to be working on SOI , but none that we know of is yet to the stage of seriously considering it for volume mainstream manufacturing , " Doherty wrote in a report .
besides IBM




Browsing the Future

AMSTERDAM -- Under the ironic mantle " The End of the Browser , " the Third International Browserday on Friday presented some 35 visions of the future of the information interface .
Far from being an insular techie gathering , organizers stages Browserday as an entertaining competition with a grand prize of a six-month internship at Medialab , a Dutch research organization .
There , the winning prototype can be turned into a full-fledged program .
Held at Amsterdam 's grandiose Paradiso concert hall , representatives from a dozen art and design academies throughout Europe each had three minutes to convince the audience of their creation 's merits , which ranged from functional prototypes to wildly abstract digressions on the nature of information itself .
The two winners were Victor Vina of London 's Royal College of Art for his text-filtering " HyperSPC " project , which prunes information back to its bare roots ; and Henk Jan Bouwmeester for his " Dawn of the Browser " concept , a kind of portable , fold-up box that contains whatever data a user wants to fill it with .
While the first Browserday two years ago focused on the raging browser wars , the gathering now addresses more complex issues such as merger-fever , the danger of proprietary formats , the challenge of open source , and contrasting views regarding minimalist design and media-richness .
Browser-lite proponents question whether a new visual interface is the right way forward , suggesting that a word may be worth a thousand pictures on the current flash-happy Web .
Yet others introduced new levels of eye candy , in which information takes on the form of spheres or molecules or scientifically-quantified emotional components .
Showmaster John Thackara wondered whether this was n't just " reinventing the wheel , " arguing that typographers have spent centuries successfully honing the art of readability .
Why add yet another meta-layer of color-coordinated symbols and rotating orbs that first need to be studied before being put into use ?
Indeed , the more critical participants gave the strongest presentations .
Louis Luthy 's " Backwards , " for example , posited that it 's the user who 's being browsed , while the browser software is merely a cleverly-tailored interface to lure visitors .
The promise of " personalized preferences " is little more than a trick to have them divulge coveted profile data .
Likewise , a novel retort to the current community-building craze was Suzanne Hin 's " Scope Browser , " which randomly groups users into " families . "
There 's no logic to the selection process , and you 're stuck with your family for life , so you better make the best of it .
Family members can contact each other for advice or chat , offering a welcome alternative to so many like-minded e-pals who only further reinforce your own perspective .
Some of the browsers only vaguely resembled the familiar programs that currently rule the roost .
The " Consumeter " is a wireless shopping-bag application from Finland that either green- or red-lights the products a user is considering buying , based on a pre-programmed profile .
But this is conceptual small beer compared to the " Quantum Browser , " which gathers and process all information , everywhere , immediately , " even faster than immediately . "
On the richer-media side , there was " Terrasonica , " an audio-based browser that allows surfing from sound to sound , bypassing text or images .
Its creators suggest this could be a new form of storyboarding for films or games , mapping out aural narratives first , then filling in images and dialogues later .




It 's a Virtual Revolution , People

The quintessential presidential candidate is controlled , contrived , packaged for TV , and , in the case of Al Gore , even robot-like .
Meet Jackie Strike .
Strike is a virtual presidential candidate -- soon to be chat-enabled -- being developed by Boettcher Hinrichs , a public relations and Web applications company in Germany .
" We 've got a team of people who 've created , " said Christopher Goold , who led the project . "
her
It 's really not that different from a real flesh-and-blood candidate . "
Strike is just another example of the trend toward developing virtual characters who , broadband-happy companies hope , will more effectively deliver information to consumers .
And why not ?
It 's virtually natural .
People already treat computers like other humans , said Justine Cassell , an associate professor at the MIT Media Lab and its director of the gesture and narrative language group .
If a program is n't working , people blame the computer .
" I had this realization when I was sitting in front of my computer swearing at it , " agreed Karl von Wendt , CEO of Kiwilogic , a company that builds virtual-character software .
" If we can make up a computer that can hold up its end of the conversation , then our feeling is that the interaction will be more efficient , more effective , and more engaging , " Cassell said .
Cassell and her students are now experimenting with virtual agents that can make small talk with the user .
It 's not clear yet whether consumers will respond positively to these virtual characters .
Ananova , who was introduced last month as the first virtual newscaster , attracted a lot of attention in its first few days .
But pageviews , the Ananova company admits , have dropped off , although it would n't divulge specific numbers .
Critics panned the green-haired newscaster . "
Ananova may be one of the most useless ways to get news on the Internet , " wrote Ben Berkowitz of the Online Journalism Review .
Nevertheless , some businesses are developing virtual characters to market their products and provide customer service .
Motorola introduced Mya -- a character who helps customers check email , news , weather , or a flight time through their cell phones -- at the Oscars this year .
Oddcast , an interactive entertainment company , has developed " K , " a virtual host for e-commerce websites .
" If she 's not a real character , or does n't have a real personality , you 're not going to care , " Oddcast CEO Adi Sideman said . " love gratification .
The users
They love feedback . "
While Marc , the host of Olympus ' Eye-Trek website , fields typed-in questions about the product , an equal number of users abuse the system -- by swearing at it , for example .
" Once they have their questions answered , then they try to test the system , " Kiwilogic 's von Wendt said .




Japan Crazy for Web Cell Phones

TOKYO -- In Japan , the craze for the Internet and mobile phones go hand in hand .
Figures released by the country 's three cell phone operators Monday showed the number of Japanese mobile phone users with Internet access will top 10 million by the end of May , making the mobile phone Japan 's most popular way of accessing the Web .
About 18 percent of Japan 's mobile phone users will be equipped with Web-compatible phones by the end of the month , the data showed .
NTT DoCoMo Inc. , a mobile phone unit of telecoms giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. , said it had 6.92 million subscribers to its Internet service known as i-mode as of Sunday , and the number of subscribers was increasing by 20,000 a day .
DoCoMo 's i-mode , where users can exchange email , do online banking , and navigate more than 7,000 Internet sites set up for the service , has overtaken traditional Japanese Internet service providers such as Fujitsu Ltd. to become Japan 's biggest Internet access platform .
ISPs
The popularity of the service forced DoCoMo to temporarily limit sales of i-mode mobile phones last month because of capacity problems created by a surge in subscribers .
DoCoMo 's competitors are also enjoying strong sales of Web Nippon Ido Tsushin Corp. , the cell phone arm of Japan 's DDI Corp , said it had about two million subscribers to its Web-access services , EZ Web and EZ Access , as of last Wednesday .
J-Phone , the mobile phone unit of Japan Telecom Co. Ltd. saw subscribers to its J-Sky Internet service almost double in April from the previous month to a total 1.04 million .
If DoCoMo i-mode users continue growing at the current rate , the total number of subscribers using mobile phones to access the Web will exceed 10 million by the end of May .
Mobile phones are the preferred mode of communication in Japan , with 56.8 million subscribers as of the end of March , compared to the 55.4 million subscribers of phone services on fixed analog lines .




Toysmart Closes Up E-Shop

An online toy retailer backed by deep-pocketed Disney Co. appears to have shut its doors this week , marking the latest in a series of recent e-commerce casualties .
On Monday , callers to Toysmart 's customer-service line were told that the company 's website was no longer operating .
Disney issued a brief statement saying that the online toy retailing industry was " an incredibly strong business that has some very strong players . "
It said that after reviewing all its options it decided over the weekend that closing the site altogether was the best course of action .
A notice posted on Toysmart 's home page Monday said the site was closed for inventory .
The Waltham , Massachusetts-based company ranked among the 10 most-visited toy retail sites in the last holiday season , according to Media Metrix .
Disney acquired a controlling stake in the company in August , incorporating the company in its Go.com Internet business .
Toysmart is n't the only online toy retailer to fall upon hard luck of late .
A protracted downturn in stocks of most online retailers has dealt a blow to Toysmart 's publicly traded competitors .
Private companies have also faced difficulty raising money and moving ahead with plans for expansion .
" There 's a lot of turmoil in the industry right now , but it 's not something that 's going to go away , " said Reyne Rice , director of the toy services division at the market research firm NPD Group .
Although online toy sales continue to grow -- NPD predicts revenues will reach $ 1.2 billion in 2000 , nearly double last year 's sales -- competition will become increasingly fierce .
KBkids.com , the Internet site backed by retail chain K*B Toys , owned by Consolidated Stores , sacked nearly a third of its staff earlier this month following the departure of its chief executive officer .
The company announced in January that it was planning an initial stock offering , but postponed an IPO in April , citing market conditions .
Another toy site , Nickelodeon-backed Red Rocket , shut down on May 5 for reasons it did not disclose on its now-defunct site .
Meanwhile , eToys , a popular stock among investors following its IPO last year , has also been struggling in recent months .
The company 's stock is trading at $ 6 , down from a year-long high of $ 86 .
And that might just be the beginning .
" I think even by this Christmas there 's going to be more of a shakeout in terms of more consolidation and sites that just may not be able to make it , " Rice said .




Promising Cancer Gene Therapy

Researchers have released positive results in gene-therapy trials treating several types of cancer , and will soon begin the final phase of trials .
Introgen Therapeutics and Aventis Pharmaceuticals are collaborating on gene-therapy treatments that could reduce the side effects associated with cancer treatment and possibly provide an alternative to radiation and chemotherapy .
Using a tumor suppressor gene called p53 , the best results were in lung-cancer studies .
" The most remarkable thing is of the 15 patients that completed the treatment , 80 percent showed no cancer cells at biopsy .
Historically , the results are less than 20 percent with radiotherapy alone , " said David Nance , president and CEO of Houston-based Introgen .
The results were presented on Sunday at the 36th American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting in New Orleans .
Introgen also reported positive results in gene-therapy studies involving prostate and head and neck cancers .
Three weeks after treatment , nine of the 15 patients in the study had no active cancer cells at the tumor site treated with gene therapy .
Five patients showed no evidence of cancer cells in tumors distant from the primary tumor treated with gene therapy .
This gives researchers hope that the therapy can have a widespread effect .
" Many researchers are choosing to test in combination so the patient does n't have to choose between the new agent and no treatment at all -- they get treated one way or another , " said Frank McCormick , director of the cancer center at the University of California at San Francisco ,
and founder of Onyx , a cancer therapy company which is developing a therapy similar to Introgen 's .
Although the results are encouraging , more studies are needed to determine the efficiency and safety of the treatment , he said .
" This is an early stage study so it 's difficult to assess if there 's any effect or not .
The numbers are small so I would n't say it 's too encouraging or discouraging , " McCormick said . "
It 's obviously worth pursuing , but the numbers are not clear enough . "
Since last September , when 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger died during a gene-therapy experiment at the University of Pennsylvania , the procedure has come under close scrutiny by the Food and Drug Administration , the National Institutes of Health , and the public .




The Real Second Coming of Diablo

One of the most anticipated PC games in recent memory is due out within the next few days , but years of delays may take some of the fire out of Diablo II .
The long-awaited Dungeons and Dragons-like game , originally slated to ship in the summer of 1998 , is finally due to go into a public beta testing with 100,000 users and is set to ship in July , but not before angering even its most loyal fans .
" A lot of fans feel cheated by the delays .
I guess I 'm more patient than them , " said Flux , a part-time stadium food vendor and SAT prepper who helps administer the unofficial fan site diabloii.net .
But even Flux admits to being a little tired waiting for the follow-up to the popular Diablo online game created by Blizzard Entertainment .
" If I had known in early '98 when I started that two years later , there still would n't be a game , I would n't have paid this much attention , " he said .
working on the site
Members of The Chaos Guild , a Diablo gaming group , are also antsy .
" Prepare yourself , " begins a spoof of the new game 's intro on their site . "
The second coming is at hand . Again .
We 're serious this time .
No , really ! "
And while some fans are peeved at the delays , industry watchers still expect Diablo II to be a hit . "
Most games have a limited window of potential success .
But Blizzard is the only developer that really has a flawless track record for putting out quality games .
So fans are willing to cut them a little slack , " reports Christian Svensson , editor of the gaming trade magazine MCV .
Like the original Diablo , the new version is a straight-forward game : kill monsters , get treasure , improve your character .
It does n't rely on bleeding-edge graphics technology and looks nearly identical to the old .
So what 's taken so long ?
Diablo II producer Matt Householder said it 's a question of size .
Act I of the four-act sequel is as large as the entire original game .
" It 's a big game , with a much larger world than the original , a lot more quests , and better story integration , " he said .
The game 's architecture also needed to be completely overhauled , to prevent the cheats who sunk online play of the first Diablo .




Web Prank Turns Up DOA

If Disney were to enter the business of death , Joey Skaggs would be an ideal candidate to run it .
He is , after all , master of the put-on , armed with a macabre sense of humor .
After his latest antic -- that of a real estate developer forming a website to build a global chain of funeral theme parks -- the notorious prankster is once again having the last laugh .
Finalcurtain.com went up last October to solicit designs and bids for Skaggs ' " project . "
It sounded to some like an ambitious , if audacious idea .
Just the kind of thing this Internet-happy world loves .
Skaggs placed advertisements in newspapers across the country that read , " Death got you down ?
At last an Alternative ! " and directed readers to finalcurtain.com .
Of course , there were hints that things seemed a little over the top , like " Heaven 's Gate Caf " -- described as a place where visitors to the cemetery park could relax and enjoy lots of vegan delicacies .
Then there was " Dant's Grill , " a " subterranean cafe located directly beneath the Eternal Flame allowing diners the opportunity to gaze through tinted glass walls at a wax museum depicting noted critics of art and freedom of expression in various stages of torture in a Dant's Inferno environment . "
People will buy almost anything , Skaggs figured .
Why not this ?
" The Internet is just fraught with all kinds of cons and hustles , " he said .
And as someone who 's been in the hoax business for decades , he knows there 's never a shortage of gullible folks ready to believe almost anything .
Even the proposal posted on the site from artist " Mitch Dushay " -- a big believer in cloning who submitted his faux design for a monument that would memorialize him with a freezer and a bench .
Dushay proposed to keep samples of his cells in a minus-80 degrees freezer .
Celsius
" Not merely sperm bank-type specimens , these may be the germs of full-blown Mitch clones , " he explained . "
The combinations to the locks would be held by trusted colleagues at the until the technology is available and the time is right .
National Institute of Health
My preserved brain will sit on top of this freezer in a crystal jar . "
Assuming the cloning thing worked out , the bench would be necessary for visitors , who would be " encouraged to sit down and drop a note ...
I hope family and friends all over the world will continue to send postcards posthumously and thereby refresh my memory . "
Skaggs has been behind several notorious pranks , including the Celebrity Sperm Bank hoax and the so-called BioPEEP hoax , a story about an Australian company 's sinister plot to manufacture a genetically engineered poultry additive that reconfigures consumers ' DNA , addicting them to a particular brand of chicken .
The details of the secret project were catalogued at StopBioPEEP.com .
At the time , the New York Post ran a headline that screamed , " Zealots Cry Fowl over Flu Slaughter . "
Skaggs says he is n't reckless with his pranks .
" My work is always about issues , " he said . "
Whatever I find disturbing or full of hypocrisy as I self-righteously perceive it . "




Yahoo Blasts French Maneuver

PARIS -- Yahoo France said Tuesday a court ruling to stop the French from accessing online sales of Nazi memorabilia could set a dangerous precedent for Internet users worldwide .
The French subsidiary of Yahoo also warned that it was technically impossible to fully comply with the ruling and did not discount lodging an appeal .
In the first verdict of its kind in France , a Paris court accused Yahoo on Monday of offending " the collective memory of the country " by allowing Nazi souvenirs to be sold on one of the English-language sites it hosts .
It gave the California-based company until July 24 to " make it impossible " for Web surfers here to access the auctions .
" The whole question goes above Yahoo , " said Yahoo France Director General Philippe Guillanton .
" The point is whether we want to condemn the Internet to be closed in the same way that the media have traditionally been closed by frontiers , " he told Reuters in an interview .
" This case could set a potentially dangerous precedent . "
A Yahoo.com auction site puts hundreds of Nazi , neo-Nazi , and Ku Klux Klan objects up for auction each day , including films , swastikas , uniforms , daggers , photos , and medals .
Although permitted in the United States , under French law it is illegal to exhibit or sell objects with racist overtones .
" The Paris court has dropped a bomb on the Web by condemning Yahoo , " Liberation newspaper said Tuesday .
Guillanton said he understood people 's revulsion at the sales , but did not seem to think Yahoo would ban them .
" To comply with a non-U.S. legal position , we would put ourselves in a censorship position in the U.S. , " he said , adding that company lawyers were considering an appeal .
The Yahoo trial has parallels with a long-running battle between CompuServe 's German operation and the German courts .
In that case , the former head of CompuServe Germany was found guilty in 1998 of heading a group that failed to block online access to obscene material as defined under German law .
The verdict was subsequently overturned in 1999 , following widespread condemnation from Internet experts and industry watchers both inside and outside of Germany .
Yahoo lawyers argued along similar lines to CompuServe , saying the firm could not be held liable for material posted to a U.S. Web server and which complied with U.S. legislation .
" It is the first case where a judge in one country feels that he is competent to decide over what actions he thinks an actor should be taking , " said Guillanton .
in another country
France is a recent convert to the Internet and lags well behind the United States in usage .
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin is eager to promote the Web , hoping it will prove a motor for economic growth .
But as the Internet takes hold , it is also running into legal problems .
Earlier this month , another French court moved against an auction website run by Nart.com , saying its online sales operating from the United States were illegal here where state auctioneers still hold a monopoly on public auctions .
Nart.com chairman Antoine Beaussant has appealed .
" They are saying that French law should apply to American companies , " he said . "
France is struggling with its new economy revolution . "




Nokia Raises 3G Ante

HELSINKI -- Nokia on Tuesday moved closer to challenging Ericsson as the No. 1 supplier of so-called 3G , or third generation , mobile networks with a $ 300 million deal with Singapore operator StarHub .
Included in the deal will be 3G core and radio access network equipment .
This equipment aims to give cellphone users access to non-stop Internet , video conferencing , fast data transfers and other multimedia thrills .
Nokia of Finland is going toe to toe with Sweden 's Ericsson , the world 's leading mobile infrastructure maker , to win the most 3G orders .
That market is expected to take off this year and next as mobile phone operators spend big bucks to upgrade their networks .
" As there are so few contracts on the market , each 3G contract is very important and is heavily fought over , " said Swedbank tech analyst Jan Ihrfelt . "
It 's a very important indication of who the attractive 3G manufacturers are . "
Operators are battling each other to win 3G licences under auction , often at a high cost .
The licences are seen as lucrative as subscribers increasingly turn to mobile services .
Earlier this month , five phone companies , including Vodafone AirTouch , paid a total of $ 33.32 billion to each operate a 3G licence in Britain .
Nokia , the world 's leading cellphone maker , said it expected the number of 3G licences awarded this year and next to soar , leading to greater competition among network makers .
" Over the next 18 months we see 80-90 licences in Europe , but it 's really next year that things will take off , " said Arja Suominen , a Nokia spokeswoman .
3G
Nokia shares were 5 percent higher at 52.84 euros on a positive midday bourse , clawing back from a loss of 11 percent on Monday as tech and telecom shares worldwide were battered .
Winning the Singapore order has moved Nokia closer to challenging Ericsson 's leadership position in 3G , but Nokia said it was still too early in the race to talk about market share .
Suominen said Nokia had won four 3G orders in four countries -- Japan , Singapore , Finland , and Liechtenstein .
Ericsson has won five orders coming from Britain , Finland , and Japan .
Nokia admits it is the No. 2 player in 3G , but says it aims to be a significant player in the fast-growing market .
It also sees other players , such as Germany 's Siemens and France 's Alcatel , becoming competitors .
Analysts still see the race for leadership in the mobile infrastructure business as a dogfight between Ericsson and Nokia , although most say Ericsson is winning the biggest orders worth the most money from the operators .
But some worry that given the expected high prices to be paid for each 3G licence -- especially after the successful British auction -- operators may be forced to scale down the size of orders for 3G equipment , hitting network equipment producers .




Gates ' Next Vision of the Future

SEATTLE -- Bill Gates on Wednesday laid out his vision for the " third phase " of the Internet , but declined to comment on the reports that a federal judge praised a brief that recommends a three-way split of software giant .
Gates , who recently traded in his CEO position at Microsoft to become chief software architect , ducked all antitrust questions and instead offered his vision of the future at the opening of Microsoft 's fourth annual CEO Summit .
Gates told the audience of 140 top executives invited to the firm 's Redmond campus that he envisioned applications such as Web-based services and intelligent programs that harvest information and deliver it to wireless devices .
Microsoft will detail its specific next-generation software products and services next week at a separate event called Forum 2000 .
Gates foretold of a world where paper books would become a relic of the past , and video-conferencing over pocket-sized PCs will be as commonplace as phone calls are today .
" Technology is not standing still , " said Gates . "
That will really have an effect on how we view this as a revolutionary change-agent .
A lot of things are coming together right now that are going to make the Internet very different from the way it has been . "
Over the next few years , he said , a series of innovations currently being developed will change " what is largely an offline economy to a real-time , online digital economy . "
Gates described his vision as one of " bringing together these worlds that have been separate , " and writing the software that allows them to operate seamlessly .
He said that there are still some technological breakthroughs that need to occur for his vision of the future to be realized : new , bright screen displays with high enough resolutions to make reading as effortless as it is with paper ; moving broadband access beyond businesses and into homes ; and " a whole new generation of digital wireless , so that as we walk around we have access to all this information . "
Gates described the Internet 's phase one as starting in 1995 with " typically read-only " websites that piped information about companies and products to consumers .
Over the last two or three years , he said , that has transitioned to a " real mania over transactions , essentially gross revenues over the Internet ... even at the expense of the long-term profitability models . "
In the third phase , just dawning , he said , " people are saying , ' What does it have to do with profit ?
' "
In the new phase , Gates said corporate leaders have to refocus their attention on their " knowledge workers , " who he described as key to the success of businesses as the changes caused by the Internet take hold .
" It can make a huge difference in the things that really count toward profit : great product design , great customer service , and efficiency in how things are being done . "




EBay Gains Edge in Bidding Suit

A federal judge has barred Bidder 's Edge , a website that compares bids on multiple auction sites , from culling data from eBay 's computer systems .
The ruling , a preliminary injunction issued Thursday in U.S. District Court in San Jose , followed months of legal sparring between the largest online auction site and a Massachusetts startup that runs a comparison shopping site for the Internet .
EBay filed suit in December in an attempt to stop Bidder 's Edge from listing eBay items for auction alongside items from Yahoo , Amazon , and other auction sites .
The lawsuit charged that Bidder 's Edge violated eBay copyright by posting listings and broke a provision of California law that prevents unauthorized computer intrusion into databases .
The court found that eBay has a strong chance of proving its charges .
" EBay is likely to be able to demonstrate that activities have diminished the quality or value of eBay 's computer systems , " the ruling said .
Bidder 's Edge 's
The court also sided against Bidder 's Edge over claims that its activities did n't harm eBay 's site or its computer systems .
" Even if ... its searches use only a small amount of eBay 's computer system capacity , has nonetheless deprived eBay of the ability to use that portion of its personal property for its own purposes .
Bidder 's Edge
The law recognizes no such right to use another 's personal property . "
Bidder 's Edge executives said they plan to contest the ruling , which bars the company from accessing eBay 's data at least until the lawsuit is resolved .
The company tentatively expects a trial date to be set for March 2001 .
In addition , Bidder 's Edge filed its own antitrust lawsuit against eBay , which is also still pending in federal court in San Jose .
Bidder 's Edge CEO James Carney said the court order -- which takes effect in two weeks -- did n't come as a surprise .
Unless the order is reversed , he said the company plans to comply by no longer having its computers crawl the eBay site .
As a result , Bidder 's Edge is bound to become a much smaller site .
More than two-thirds of the items on the Bidder 's Edge site come from eBay , according to background information in Thursday 's ruling .
The company estimated that it would lose about a third of its users if it stops publishing data from eBay auctions .
The news did n't do much to perk up eBay investors on Thursday , however .
EBAY
Shares of the online auction company were down more than 4 percent in late afternoon trading , at $ 62 .




Next Disaster : Where IT 's At

Steen Rasmussen has long planned for disaster .
As a government scientist , Rasmussen helps design Internet-based tools that would connect government , citizens , and relief agencies during such natural calamities as a major California quake .
Then last week , quite unforeseen -- disaster .
The giant fire that swept through Los Alamos drove Rasmussen from his Los Alamos Labs office into a real-life , chaotic calamity .
" The most difficult thing to understand was the lack of information -- nobody knew anything , " he said . "
The different disaster agencies could n't talk to each other .
People were ringing the shelter 's phones off the hook .
And the television did n't give you anything .
You 'd have some reporter saying , ' Oh , is n't this terrible , ' and then they 'd show pictures of how terrible it was .
But they did n't tell you anything you needed to know . "
Rasmussen 's response : Call in the information technology cavalry .
Rasmussen put out calls to his friends in the local Net industry -- such as owners of small ISPs and wireless communications companies -- many of whom were already organizing their own volunteer efforts .
Rasmussen and a group of about 40 volunteers then hauled computers to the myriad shelters and relief centers and wired them together .
Los Alamos residents displaced by the fire entered their contact information into searchable databases that were then posted online at several websites put together by volunteers .
Those sites became clearinghouses for any and all information about the fire , replete with news updates , current maps of fire damage , contact information for relief agencies and shelters , plus databases to locate loved ones -- and even missing pets .
" You could n't call any central area to find out what was going on , " Rasmussen said . "
But you could go online . "
As the smoke settles , Rasmussen is now drafting up a lessons-learned memo that he plans to send to the Federal Emergency Management Agency .
FEMA
First lesson : IT volunteer units work wonders .
" I was so impressed by the Internet providers ' response , particularly the New Mexico Internet Providers Association , " said Rasmussen . "
Even though they 'd never worked with a disaster before , they had all the right instincts .
" In the future , I think it would be a natural thing for wireless providers and Net providers to create volunteer organizations modeled on the Red Cross . "
The Red Cross already has a Disaster Computer Operations unit , but it 's limited in scope .
When the Red Cross goes out to a major disaster area , it deploys teams of computer pros -- along with up to 240 computers -- from a central staging area in Austin , Texas .
Staffers in the field use the computers to help deal with the enormous administration burdens of relief work .
The problem is , those machines are n't networked , and they 're not connected to the Web .




New-Breed Broccoli Fights Big C

LONDON -- Super-broccoli loaded with natural compounds to help prevent cancer could be on dinner tables within a few years , British researchers said on Wednesday .
Plant biologists at the John Innes Center , a government-funded plant research center , produced the super-broccoli by cross breeding the normal plant with a wild Sicilian species in the same family .
The new plant , which is not genetically modified , contains up to 100 times more sulphoraphane , a compound that helps to lower the risk of cancer , than normal broccoli .
" It 's much more potent than normal broccoli , " professor Richard Mithen , the head of the research team that produced the plant , told Reuters .
" Our best lines have 100 times more sulphoraphane than a normal broccoli , " he added .
The activity of the compounds is well known and has for years been the focus of research , particularly in the United States .
But Mithen said the super-broccoli is one of the first plants in which scientists have intensified their effects .
" No gene has been inserted through genetic modification .
This is classical breeding .
But we speeded that breeding program up by using DNA fingerprinting technology . "
Normally the breeding program would have taken about 10-15 years but thanks to DNA technology Mithen has done it in four .
The institute owns the patent on the breeding method .
The super-broccoli looks and tastes like normal broccoli but it is packed with sulphoraphane , which induces natural protective enzymes to rid the body of carcinogens before they can do harm .
" It switches on the defenses of our body .
We have these natural defenses but in some people they work better than in others .
If we eat broccoli it switches them on and makes them more effective , " Mithen added .
Breeding work on the super-broccoli is nearly finished and the researchers hope to begin testing it on humans next year .
It could be available within a few of years .
Mithen said plant biologists had come full circle with the breeding of super-broccoli because in medieval times broccoli and cabbage were grown as medicinal plants .




Europe Still Sees E-Gold Ahead

BERLIN -- Boo.com 's demise may have spooked Internet businesses all over Europe , but on the opening day of this week 's Internet World trade show at the Berlin Messe , giddy talk of big growth still dominated .
" By no means does boo.com declaring bankruptcy mean that consumer demand will slow as well , " Nicole Vanderbilt , a vice president of the e-commerce analyst Jupiter Communications , said at a workshop on the opening day of the three-day event .
In fact , Jupiter predicts that the total number of money spent on European e-commerce will rise from 2.9 billion euros last year to 64.4 billion euros in 2005 .
$ 2.6 billion
That is just the sort of rosy talk that makes an event like Internet World tick .
There are more than 350 exhibitors covering 21,000 square meters , compared to 300 exhibitors spread out over 15,000 square meters last year .
But this is not an event designed for the public , like the massive CeBIT computer fair in Hannover every year .
Internet World expects only 1,600 convention attendees this year -- compared to 26,000 " professional visitors " -- and the tone is appropriately boosterish .
" ALL IMPORTANT DECISIONS REGARDING THE INTERNET ARE MADE IN BERLIN , " declares the Internet World website .
" To develop the perfect Internet website , a business has to find the right partners , " goes the pitch . "
Internet World Berlin 2000 provides that latest knowledge on the Internet more concentrated than any other German trade fair . "
Schmoozefests have their place in business , of course , and the mood still seems to be get-while-the-getting-is-good .
That 's true despite the example of boo.com , the British online sportswear retailer .
It was seen as one of the bright stars of Europe 's startup scene until announcing last week it was being liquidated just six months after launch .
" Certainly , the capital markets are starting to fall out of love with their once-poster childs , " Vanderbilt said .
But the next few years still promise to make a lot of fortunes , she said , as long as dot coms are willing to learn some lessons both from outfits that fail , like boo.com , and from traditional businesses .
Her company researched European e-commerce and produced surprising results on how companies were doing in the all-important area of fielding customer complaints .
Jupiter emailed 69 European companies with standard customer-service questions , and found that nearly half either never responded or took five days or more .
46 percent
Fewer than a third responded within one day .
30 percent
" This is a huge symptom on the Internet , " Vanderbilt said .
It 's also part of a larger pattern , she said , in which Internet companies have focused too much on marketing without spending time on retaining customers and building relationships with suppliers .
It takes time to build an online customer base , Jupiter said , since the longer people have been using the Internet , the more likely they are to buy online .
The figures from the United States are striking .
Among people who have been online for less than a year , 24.9 percent have made a purchase using the Internet .
The percentage jumps to 56 for those who have been online two years or more .
Given the lower number of Internet users in Europe , those are important numbers because Jupiter says the gap is narrowing .
The firm predicts that by 2003 , 41 percent of Europeans will shop online , compared to 54 percent in the United States .




E-Citi Not Looking Too Pretty

NEW YORK -- Citigroup Inc. , the No. 1 U.S. financial services firm , is learning one of the Internet 's hard lessons -- the Web drains money and does n't always deliver .
E-Citi , Citigroup 's Internet think tank , faces growing criticism from Wall Street for lavish spending and lackluster results .
Citigroup now is tying e-Citi more closely to its other Internet operations , causing some analysts to speculate e-Citi 's top executive may quit .
" It 's losing money and the revenue growth has been far less than expected , primarily because they do n't have the product , " Michael Rosinus , a hedge fund manager at New York-based Tiedemann Investment Group , said . "
I guess , at some point , you 're going to need new blood at that part of the company . "
The electronic commerce unit is the brainchild of Citigroup 's former co-chief executive , John Reed , who set it up in 1997 to develop Internet services .
But e-Citi lost its most vocal champion when Reed quit Citigroup in April .
Without Reed as a backer and protector , some analysts said e-Citi 's head , Ed Horowitz , could lose power to other Citigroup executives and possibly lose his job .
Citigroup , now under the sole leadership of CEO Sanford " Sandy " Weill , says it stands behind e-Citi and Horowitz , who insists he 's there to stay and has a vital role to play .
" I am not intending to leave this company , " Horowitz , 52 , said in an interview on Friday . "
I intend to go to the next stage . "
Citigroup said it views e-Citi as a critical incubator for new products and a center for strategic investments in the Internet and related technology companies , even as it has formed other online units to team up with e-Citi .
" We 're really paying a lot of attention to what we 're doing on the Internet , " Weill said in a recent interview . "
We want people to understand that not everything that we try in that area will work . "
But e-Citi has devoured hundreds of millions of dollars while producing widening losses .
The division spent $ 527 million last year , $ 378 million in 1998 and $ 236 million the year before that , according to Citigroup 's annual report .
At the same time , its 1999 net loss increased to $ 179 million from a loss of $ 143 million in 1998 and a loss of $ 94 million in 1997 , its filings showed .
Its revenues rose to $ 233 million from $ 149 million in 1998 and $ 114 million in 1997 .
" I have been awestruck by the amount of money that Citigroup has been willing to put into electronic banking , " said Lawrence Cohn , an analyst at Ryan , Beck Southeast Research . "
I can not conceive where that money has gone . "
Others disagree , saying e-Citi 's profits have simply been folded into other businesses at Citigroup , disguising them , and noting most U.S. banks have invested large sums in the Internet with paltry results .
" Everyone has spent a lot of money and does n't have a lot to show for it , " said Robert Albertson , who runs financial services investment firm Pilot Financial . "
They 're not supposed to .
To some extent , this is research and development . "
But the center of power has shifted away from e-Citi and Horowitz , many analysts say .
Horowitz now reports to Citigroup vice chairman Deryck Maughan , who was put in charge of a new Internet operating committee in March shortly after Reed 's departure was announced .
" Now Maughan is in charge of the Internet future at Citigroup , " Rosinus said . "
My view of it is , there is no way stays .
Horowitz
No way .
This is a graceful way for him to step aside if he wants to , because he has an excuse now . "
Maughan comes from Weill 's Travelers , where he co-led securities firm Salomon Smith Barney .
Horowitz , by contrast , came to Citicorp after leading the interactive media arm of Viacom Inc. and was in Reed 's camp .
Weill also announced in a memo in April the formation of two more Internet ventures to complement e-Citi -- e-Consumer , focused on online payments and consumer financial services offerings , and e-Business , which would combine e-Citi business services with the corporate bank .
" It seems they are taking power away from and putting it with the different divisions , " said Steven Eisman , an analyst at CIBC World Markets .
Horowitz
Eisman , like Cohn and Rosinus , said he would n't be surprised if Horowitz were to leave .
Citigroup has called these steps part of a natural evolution of its Internet strategy , saying it had always planned to take ideas generated by e-Citi and move them to the units .
The new Internet units employ technology created by e-Citi and will focus on the company 's customers , rather than on innovation as e-Citi does , a Citigroup spokeswoman said .
" The operating units have the ability to make what has been developed by e-Citi more robust , and to build on it , to distribute it , and to get to new customers , " Horowitz said . "
It 's just the first chapter , and what I intend to do is to continue to build the next layer . "
E-Citi 's initiatives include the creation of a small business website called Bizzed.com , an electronic commerce marketplace with Commerce One Inc.
It also has an Internet-only bank , called Citi f/i , and a Web version of its Direct Access online banking service .
" Citigroup should be noted for what it has n't done as much as for what it 's done , " said George Bicher , an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex . Brown . "
They did n't blindly enter with an Internet-only bank , which should be commended . "
But other analysts say the recent structural moves at Citigroup 's Internet operations highlight fundamental differences in the way Travelers and the old Citicorp did business .
" Travelers believes business lines drive businesses and you do n't have a large independent staff function running around doing its own thing , " Cohn said . "
I think we are going to see e-Citi slowly wither away , function by function . "
Others contend Citicorp 's Direct Access online banking service , launched in 1984 , has not changed much since then , nor has its online banking customer base altered much or expanded .
" They clearly have enormous potential , given the strength of their global brand name and their large infrastructure , which can absorb the needed investments , " said Michael Mayo , an analyst at CS First Boston . "
Nevertheless , they have not brought all of the resources together that they potentially can to build one coherent Internet strategy . "




MS Judge Moves In for the Kill

WASHINGTON -- Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson said Wednesday he 's almost ready to rule in the Microsoft antitrust case , and signaled he 's thinking of carving the world 's largest software company into three or even four separate firms .
Jackson , the U.S. district judge overseeing the trial , shocked the courtroom when he denied Microsoft 's requests for additional time -- and said he wants to have all paperwork filed by next Wednesday at the latest .
Microsoft had hoped to have until December to prepare its defense .
" I 'm not contemplating any further process , " Jackson told the scores of observers , some of whom showed up at 7:30 a.m. EDT for a front-row seat . " is submitted . "
This case
Jackson did n't say when he would decide , but if his comments during the remedies hearing are any indication , he 's ready to split Microsoft into at least three companies .
That would be more drastic than the plan submitted last month by the Justice Department and state attorneys general , which suggests only two competing firms .
" The effect of a bisection will , in effect , create two separate monopolies ... both of which are dominant , " Jackson said during the hearing .
Jackson suggested the government might consider including a " third Internet browser company " that would have responsibility for Internet Explorer .
He said that idea was proposed by two trade associations in what he termed " an excellent brief . "
" That was something we very seriously considered , " replied David Boies , an attorney representing the Justice Department .
Boies said , however , he did n't think there was " sufficient " evidence introduced during the trial to justify the plan . "
We do n't think the record in this case would support that , " Boies said .
The amicus brief submitted on May 19 by the Computer and Communications Industry Association and the Software and Information Industry Association said Internet Explorer should be spun off into a separate company or licensed for free on an " open-source basis . "
CCIA
A Microsoft attorney dismissed CCIA 's arguments , telling Jackson it was " an organization comprised of Unix vendors , all of whom compete with Microsoft .
...
They are competitors running scared . "
But Jackson seemed intrigued by the more-than-two-companies idea , and also cited another brief written by some economists who recommend a four-way split .
That amicus brief , filed April 27 , says Microsoft should be divided into three competing Windows companies and one Office-and-everything-else firm .
After Jackson abruptly ended the hearing , Microsoft representatives appeared shocked by his refusal to grant any time .
They had first proposed December , and attorney John Warden asked for " at least several months " to prepare a response .
Now , they 're resigned to a lengthy appeal process .
Outside on the courthouse steps , Microsoft vice president William Neukom said that Jackson 's hasty decision would be part of the appeal . "
We will be raising issues of procedure ... as well as the appropriateness of the remedy .
We have several rounds to go , " Neukom said .
A source close to Microsoft said the company had been preparing for a decision as early as next week .
Jackson ruled last fall that Microsoft enjoyed monopoly power , and then this spring said the company violated antitrust laws .
Microsoft has 30 days from the date Jackson releases his final order to submit an appeal .
Jackson has asked for the Justice Department 's final breakup plan by Friday , and Microsoft 's response by Tuesday or Wednesday .
Microsoft shares rose to 65-9/16 , a 2-3/8 points jump , but far below a 52-week high of 119-15/16 .
MSFT




Quantum Leap in Searching

A leading physicist has devised a new quantum computer search algorithm that may make Web searches and their ten pages of useless results a thing of the past .
Lov Grover , a researcher at Lucent Technologies ' Bell Labs in New Jersey , has invented a technique that would allow a quantum computer to almost instantaneously search massive databases and return very precise results .
Of course , the technique depends on having a quantum computer , a machine that is still largely theoretical but is slowly starting to become a reality in research labs around the world .
Presented as a paper on Tuesday at the Association for Computing Machinery 's prestigious Symposium on the Theory of Computing , Grover 's technique can identify items in huge databases even when the search terms are hopelessly vague .
For example , Grover said the algorithm should be able to find someone 's phone number in the gigantic New York phone book even if the person 's last name or address is n't known .
All the algorithm needs is one or two definitive search terms , like the person 's first name , and clues to the other items , like a guess at the last name or street , plus a probability associated with each search criteria .
" It would be most useful where you have partial information and probabilities , " Grover explained . " you are 90 percent sure it is John and 10 percent it 's James and 50 percent it 's on Broadway ... there is a high probability you will get the right result . "
If
Grover is famous in quantum computing circles for inventing the first search algorithm for quantum computers in 1996 .
Known as the Grover Search Algorithm , it is one of only a handful of algorithms , or programs , developed so far for quantum computers .
GSA
Unlike a conventional computer program , which advances through its procedures step by step , quantum algorithms take advantage of the weird quantum properties of quantum computers , which allow calculations , or in this case a search , to be performed as though in parallel .
Thus a quantum computer can rip through a huge calculation or search in a fraction of the time it takes a traditional machine .
According to Grover , the average quantum search is the square root of the number of items being searched .
For example , in a million item database , a conventional computer would have to look at 500,000 items to find a search item .
By contrast , Grover 's algorithm would have to look at only 1,000 items , which could yield huge time savings when searching big databases .
And , of course , the bigger the database , the bigger the time savings .
In 1998 , Grover generalized the GSA by showing how it could be used to solve a range of different computational and physics problems .
However , both the GSA and its generalized offspring work only if there is a single right answer to the query , or problem , posed .
In other words , the object of the search must exist in the database and it must be the only candidate for that search .
Grover said his latest algorithm solves that problem and may also prove useful as a general problem-solving technique in computing and quantum physics .
" This is the third significant development in that sequence and by far the most general , " he said . "
It should find more applications than the other developments . "
David DiVincenzo , a researcher at IBM 's Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights , New York , said he had n't seen Grover 's paper because of an embargo , but it appeared to be an incremental advance on his previous work rather than a fundamental breakthrough .
" I do n't believe it 's a giant advance in computing science theory of quantum computing , " he said . "
From what I 've heard it 's a variation on techniques he 's been working on for a number of years .
" They may some day be important in searching databases very far in the future on hardware that does not exist and will not exist for a very long time in the future . "




Portable Pen for Potable Water

LOS ANGELES -- " Do n't drink the water " may someday be replaced with " Do n't forget your pen " as standard advice for vacationers .
Researchers have developed a battery-operated pen-shaped device for travelers and campers , as well as soldiers and victims of natural disasters , that can quickly and safely disinfect contaminated drinking water .
Unscrew the pen 's cap to remove a salt pellet , drop it into a cartridge , screw the top back on , shake it then wait until the thing stops vibrating and you have a solution that can disinfect about a liter of water .
The method would replace chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or having to boil the water .
" In developing countries , the level of microbes is obviously unknown , but even if the load is high we are able to reduce the infectious loads to a rate that is not detectable , " said Mark Sobsey , professor of environmental microbiology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill .
He also directed a laboratory study of the device , the results of which were presented on Thursday at a meeting here of the American Society for Microbiology .
The pen , developed with funding from the Department of Defense by Miox Corp. of Albuquerque , New Mexico , even reduces levels of cryptosporidium , an intestinal parasite that is resistant to chlorine .
The device disinfects water by generating mixed oxidants , including chlorine , from a sodium chloride salt pellet .
Similar systems , on a much larger scale , are used to purify public water supplies , including that of the city of Santa Fe , New Mexico , Sobsey said .
His researchers tested the pen against microbes including bacteria like the deadly E.coli , bacterial spores , viruses , and cryptosporidium , which has been known to turn up in public water supplies .
" There was a dramatic reduction of all test bacteria and viruses within one to ten minutes .
There was also extensive inactivation of cryptosporidium , " explained Maren Anderson , one of the researchers .
The pen , which the researchers said is likely to retail for around $ 100 , can be used repeatedly , with only new salt tablets and a working battery needed .
The resulting water has no chlorine smell or taste , they said , despite the fact that the electrochemical reaction produces chlorine .
" It must have something to do with the other oxidants that are produced -- there is evidence of ozone and peroxide -- but the exact reason is still being studied , " Sobsey said .
The Environmental Protection Agency has approved on-site generation of oxidants as equivalent to chlorine in its ability to disinfect public water supplies , but Sobsey is hopeful that the agency will eventually make a distinction between the two methods .
He added that the disinfecting pen produces no more unwanted byproducts than the chlorine which is typically used .
The pen is currently being field-tested on a military base .




Gizmos Gets a Hand from Marketers

New York -- John Sculley , marketer extraordinaire of Macs and colored sugar water , thinks he 's found the next big thing .
The former top executive at Apple and Pepsi is so enthusiastic that last week he invested in New York-based Gizmoz , which developed technology that takes the failed effort of push technology and goes one better .
Developed by Israeli whiz kid Eyal Gever , the technology uses consumers to pass along marketing messages and content embedded in email to develop a " viral network . "
The Gizmoz technology also leaves a visual trail behind the content , allowing marketers to see how successfully content and promotions are doing , and whether those promotions are being passed on to other users .
" If Victoria 's Secret had used Gizmoz in their , they would have known exactly how many people clicked and how to maintain a connection to them , " said Sculley .
webcasting campaign last year
on the broadcast
For the user 's part , a Gizmoz is a Java applet that resides on a user 's desktop and automatically updates itself with the latest text , audio , sound , or data from the sender .
If the computer user likes what they 're getting , they can forward it to others , much like an ordinary email .
" This is a way that anybody can be their own network , " said Sculley . "
Email is essentially a publishing model .
Gizmos is part of a movement toward more of a broadcasting model . "
A Gizmo only takes up about 13 kilobytes of space on the desktop .
Users subscribe to content that is then streamed to their desktop from the Gizmoz website .
Because the technology takes up so little memory , it can easily be deleted , swapped , forwarded , or embedded in other devices such as PDAs or cellular phones .
Previous attempts at push technology , such as PointCast , sparked resentment among users who found their connections clogged with bulky files or who were unable to delete the files once they were downloaded .
The company has also developed its own streaming technology that does n't require users to download other technologies such as RealPlayer or Flash .
A Gizmoz can also incorporate other Internet features , such as a chat .




Toy Sites : Not all Fun and Games

Online toy sites were a hot ticket with investors last year , who bought in to the promise that legions of folks would opt to do their shopping in cyberspace .
And while a lot of people actually are buying toys online -- those very same companies are tanking .
This month was a particularly brutal month for upstart online toy retailers .
On Monday , Toysmart.com , a retailer backed by Disney 's Go.com network and one of the ten most-visited U.S. toy sites last Christmas , pulled the plug on its operations .
The shut-down came less than a year after Disney invested in the company .
The closure followed on the heels of the demise of another toy site -- Nickelodeon-backed Red Rocket -- which announced in early May that it would no longer take orders .
Around the same time , retail site Kbkids.com , the online arm of Consolidated Stores-owned retail chain K*B Toys , cut about 30 percent of its staff in a move to reduce costs and restructure the company .
Publicly traded companies in the online toy business have taken a beating as well .
Shares of industry heavyweight eToys.com , for example , are trading at less than a tenth of their year-long high .
What 's more , experts who follow the online toy business predict the wave of closures is n't over yet .
" We expect more companies to find themselves in the same situation , " said Rebecca Nidositko , online retail strategy analyst at Yankee Group .
Underneath the corporate gloom and evaporating investor dollars , however , industry researchers say there is also a more positive truth .
It 's that online toy sales are n't doing badly at all .
Between 1998 and 1999 , online toy sales grew more than tenfold , from $ 45 million to nearly $ 650 million , said Reyne Rice , director of the toy services division at the market research firm NPD Group .
Sales are expected to nearly double in 2000 .
By 2002 , Rice estimates sales will reach $ 2.4 billion , or about 9 percent of all toy industry sales .
What 's more , Rice expects the online toy business to grow faster than other sectors , partly because they get a lot of their business from working parents , a particularly time-pressed segment of the population that 's likely to appreciate the speed of purchasing online .
Such positive projections , however , do n't appear to have improved the investment climate for toy retailers .
Even meeting or exceeding market expectations has been ineffective in perking up sagging shares .
Take the case of eToys , established as an early industry darling following a blockbuster IPO last year that gave the company an instant stock market value in the billions .
ETYS
After its first-day close , the money-losing company 's stock was worth more than that of its profitable rival in the offline world , ToysRus .
But that was ages ago , in Internet time .
These days , eToys shares are hovering at $ 6 .
Although the still unprofitable company reported earnings slightly ahead of Wall Street estimates in its latest quarter , shares still nosedived .
In a way , some industry observers note , toy retailers have been a victim of their success in generating massive hype early in their operating history .
As a result , sites like eToys garnered massive valuations based on investor enthusiasm for e-commerce , rather than the company 's bottom line .




IPublish Praised , But Will URead ?

Authors and independent e-publishers seem to be enthusiastic about Time Warner 's iPublish.com , the first Internet-only effort to come from a major U.S. publisher .
But reaction from traditional publishers over the site , which goes live in January , is lukewarm .
IRead , the first tier of the program , does not offer many surprises .
It will showcase current and backlist titles plus offer original content from authors such as David Baldacci and Sandra Brown , as well as from such well-known authors as Walter Mosley and Billie Letts .
Digital publications will be sold on the site as well as through Time Warner 's online retail partners .
The second tier , on the other hand -- called iWrite -- marks the first time in over a decade that a major publisher will open its doors to unsolicited manuscripts .
Using a model similar to the one used by literary magazine Zoetrope : All-Story , authors will be invited to submit work that will be critiqued first by their peers .
The next step is being chosen by one of iPublish 's five editors .
The process is estimated to take a few months .
Writers who are signed will receive a 25 percent royalty rate .
" The best of the best will be published as e-books first and then possibly make it into print , " said Gregory Voynow , senior vice president and general manager of iPublish.com .
Claire Zion , editorial director at iPublish.com , said she expects the vetting process to produce several hundred e-books a year . "
I think as much as 20 percent of what is submitted will be e-published , " she said .
In the current marketplace , editors are often forced to turn down work that may be good enough to publish but which may not warrant a print run of 20,000 books .
" But now , without worrying about the expense of printing and returns , " Zion said , " we can reach out to niche audiences via the Web and test-market a wider variety of titles than ever before . "
Zion expects to do more than grow authors and push genre barriers . "
For the first time we can actually find out what readers want , not what we think they want , " Zion said . "
Editors have been dictators for too long .
Now we can be arbiters -- no longer guessing what will sell , but knowing what will . "
The third part of the program , iLearn , is a writer 's community that will offer aspiring authors lectures , classes , and chats with Time Warner authors , editors , and executives .
In a separate announcement , Microsoft will be offering Michael Crichton 's latest bestseller Timeline for free and immediate download from Barnesandnoble.com in the Microsoft Reader format for the Pocket PC .
While this is the first time a bestseller is being made available as a free e-book , Zion said that giving away books is not that unusual in the industry .
According to Barnesandnoble.com vice chairman Steve Riggio , the online retailer is also in the planning stages with Microsoft to build an e-book superstore .
Some industry executives question if the audience for e-books is big enough to sustain Time Warner 's multi-million dollar investment in iPublish.com . "
This is just a lot of spin , " said Sally Richardson , president of St. Martin 's Press .
Although St. Martin 's has been releasing electronic versions alongside many of its print titles since 1998 -- and was the first traditional house to do so -- Richardson does n't feel the time is right to do much more than that . "
To create a vetting process that works the right way both editorially and legally just does n't make sense now , " she said .
According to Steve Cohen , senior vice president of St. Martin 's , there are only 45,000 reader devices in use . "
Even if there are half a million by next year , those just are n't the kinds of numbers that warrant this kind of investment , " he said .
Executives at Harper Collins and Random House -- both of whom would only speak off the record -- felt the iPublish program was premature .
But in the Web entrepreneurial community , there was little criticism .
Three years ago , the traditional publishing industry scoffed at e-publishing startups .
Now it appears they are trying to catch up , said Angela Adair-Hoy , CEO of Booklocker.com , which e-publishes over 700 authors . "
This further endorses what we 've created , " she said .
" Anything that brings credibility to e-books is a positive step , " said Marilyn Nesbitt , who started Diskus Publishing in 1997 and currently e-publishes more than 100 authors .
On the agent 's side , there has been some disappointment over the royalty rates being offered by iPublish . "
Twenty-five percent is higher than print , " said one agent , who requested anonymity , " but e-books should be treated as sub-rights and authors should get a 50-50 split . "
Another industry executive who would only speak off the record said that iPublish will seriously undermine online self-publishing and cooperative e-publishing ventures .
" What writer will n't go to iPublish.com first ? " he asked . "
This is going to blow companies like Xlibris and iUniverse out of the water . "
But Richard Tam , CEO of iUniverse.com , which is partially owned by Barnes and Noble , disagreed .
" It 's great to be a pioneer and have this kind of validation come from an industry giant , " Tam said . "
The Internet is big enough to hold a great number of new ideas and there is ... room for competition . "
Tam pointed out that Time Warner 's move into e-publishing proves publishing is rapidly evolving and is certain these innovations will bring permanent change .
Chris MacAskill , CEO of Fatbrain.com , said that in addition to being competition , Fatbrain 's Mightywords.com is going to be one of Time Warner 's online distributors . "
I 'm calling it co-competition and I think it 's going to be beneficial for all of us , " he said .
For author Nick Oliva , who has spent the last three years trying to get an agent for his novel , The Circle of Time , iPublish is the first Internet opportunity he is taking seriously . "
Every agent has told me they love my writing but the market is not there for my book , " he said . "
I thought about self-publishing but I still want the validation of a New York house .
I still want an editor .
I still want help . "




Intel Fears Chip Shortage

NEW DELHI -- Computer chipmaker Intel expects a tight supply position in the industry for another 12 months as components run short , its president and chief executive officer , Craig Barrett , said on Thursday .
" There is nil balance between supply and demand , " Barrett told a news conference in response to a question on the state of the semiconductor industry .
He added that investments made to address the shortage will take time to result in increased capacity .
" I ... think the semiconductor industry as a whole underinvested in 1998 and 1999 , " he said . "
I 'd expect some shortage of components for the next 12 months or so . "
Intel 's stock surged US$ 7-1/2 to close at $ 117-3/8 on Wednesday after it said it would spend $ 2 billion over the next three years to boost the number of chips it can make at its New Mexico plant .
The announcement reversed a fall on the Nasdaq , which gained 3.35 percent on Wednesday but Barrett shrugged off the linkage between the market and the announcement .
" I have n't the faintest idea on what sends the Nasdaq up or down on a daily basis , " Barrett said . "
And I am quite sure that the announcement on New Mexico did not send the Nasdaq up or down . "
However , the Intel announcement and the Nasdaq rebound had a resounding echo in Europe , where stocks of microchip makers surged on Thursday .
France 's STMicroelectronics , British chip designer ARM Holdings , and Dutch semiconductor maker ASM Lithography saw their stocks climb .
>
Barrett said the New Mexico plant would address the demand for all types of microprocessors and said his company had no plan to " abandon " desktop personal computer chips , a segment in which Intel is facing tough competition from Advanced Micro Devices Inc.
Barrett was in India after swinging through Hong Kong , the Philippines , and Malaysia as part of a five-day Asian tour during which he has focused substantially on the company 's emerging profile as a maker of chips for networking computers and appliances that will help the Internet and communications .
" We plan to have our communications and networking business grow at 50 percent a year between now and 2003 , " he said .
Networking products currently account for around $ 2 billion in sales and communication products around $ 1 billion , he said .
Intel planned to invest around $ 100 million in India in technology startups this year , up from $ 10 million last year , Barrett said .
He added that Intel 's software development center in Bangalore , which currently employs around 50 engineers now , was expected to have 500 people in three years .




Need A WebBrain to Net Search ?

Search engines just got a little smarter and a whole lot cooler-looking with the launch of WebBrain.com , which put a graphical interface on a database of websites .
The database under WebBrain.com is actually Netscape 's Open Directory Project , a human-edited search engine that lets users review and categorize sites .
ODP has more than 24,000 contributors who have entered more than 1.7 million websites , divided into 260,000 categories .
TheBrain.com , the developer of the WebBrain interface , dispensed with building its own search engine and used an existing one simply to get a demonstration of the graphical interface up and running quickly .
WebBrain can be placed on top of any indexable and searchable database .
It 's not limited to HTML links and files , but can also index Microsoft Office documents and other files as well , making it usable on a corporate intranet .
" Our objective here is to demonstrate a superior navigation , search , and discovery capability , " said Peter Fuchs , CEO of Santa Monica , California-based TheBrain.com . "
The technology is designed to separate the navigation from the Web pages .
Instead of the typical search , where you have long lists of textual information where you could get hundreds or thousands of search results , now you see it in a visual form . "
The WebBrain.com interface is split in half , with the top part completely written in Java .
It gives a Star Trek-like visual representation of the search results by category and shows all of the threads and branches from that category .
As you select categories , links appear in the lower half of the screen and submenus are drawn in the upper half .
Instead of building its own database , TheBrain.com used the ODP database to demonstrate its support for others .
The technology can work with any database from major vendors , including Oracle and IBM ; all that 's necessary is to build the connection between the interface and the data .
The software is available from the single-user , Windows version , called PersonalBrain , up to enterprise-scale search engines , such as the one powering WebBrain.com .
Aberdeen Group research director Darcy Fowkes is very enthusiastic about the technology and said there is a great deal of room for TheBrain to grow and find ways into both business and consumers ' hands .
But she wonders if businesses will embrace its distinctive look .
" If I walk into Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus and Macy 's and they all have the exact same look and layout , what 's the point ? " she said . "
Every website not only has to help people navigate , they also have to look unique . "
This counts for both commercial websites and corporate intranets .
" The company itself may have put a lot of money into its own intranet , " she said . "
The appeal of TheBrain is I can find anything and the interface is very elegant , but you have to get over the adoption issues , and one issue on my intranet is how my employees know who they are working for . "




Giving PCs a New Dimension

TEL AVIV -- Although gamers and engineers are familiar with the visualization benefits that 3-D environments bring to computing , most desktop applications still rely on the same flat appearance of twenty years ago .
Software companies are developing applications to bring similar depth to everyday desktop activities .
Three dimensional applications , such as computer-aided design , engineering , and gaming have provided realism for the PC since its inception .
However , Windows and other operating systems have remained stubbornly flat , and even Apple 's new OSX is almost exclusively two dimensional .
" 3-D interfaces are primarily a novelty , " said Michael Arrington , director of software research at technology analyst firm Jon Peddie Associates . "
No one has really figured out how to provide an interface that actually uses 3-D to add some sort of value to the task(s) of a computer . "
everyday
Clockwise Software in Tel Aviv this month released Win3D , a 3-D layer that sits on top of the Windows operating system .
From the central virtual courtyard , the user can wander into " rooms " divided into office , Internet , multimedia , or game-related applications .
After installing the free download , users can aggregate a variety of file types and even news feeds from the Internet into dynamic spaces .
However , click on one of the 3-D icons inside each room , and it 's back to a 2D space .
The three-dimensionality will go deeper in future releases , and the software will be more customizable , said ClockWise CEO Nir Ronen . "
You will be able to create your own computer environment . "
Ronen sees 3-D as a logical progression in user interface . "
Why did people shift from DOS to Windows ?
We believe that this is the next paradigm . "
Shumin Zhai , a researcher with IBM 's User System Ergonomics Research Group , believes 3-D environments need to be refined in order to deal with today 's information overload .
" I can often not find a file that I created last week because there are so many of them and they look the same , " he said . "
When we talk about 3-D , it should be a richer cue in terms of appearance , shape , color , look , location . "




France to Destroy GM Rapeseed

PARIS -- The French government on Thursday became the first in Europe to order the outright destruction of rapeseed crops that included genetically modified material .
GM
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin 's office said in a statement 600 hectares wre planted with the seed in France .
Rapeseed is called canola in North America .
Checks had shown up a relatively small proportion of GM seeds -- about one percent of the total quantity -- and at least one strain of herbicide-resistant rapeseed .
" After careful examination of the case and immediate ways of remedying the situation , the government decided to call on the groups involved to proceed with the destruction of the rapeseed plants , " it said .
The decision followed the news last week that seed company Advanta had sold seeds imported from Canada containing traces of GM material -- still highly controversial in Europe -- to farmers in France , Britain , Germany , and Sweden by mistake .
Advanta is part of a 50-50 venture between Anglo-Swedish group AstraZeneca Plc and Dutch cooperative Cosun .
AZN.L
Regional cooperative COOPAGRI Bretagne , whose farmers planted around half of the contaminated crops in France , said it had planned to destroy the crops in any case .
" As a question of principle , this decision satisfies us , " said Gerard Maillot , deputy director of the cooperative .
Maillot said the cooperative would try to reach an amicable agreement with Advanta 's French office regarding compensation .
In a statement , Advanta France said it considered the government 's decision " out of proportion " but was ready to fully cooperate with authorities and distributors " in order to best preserve their interests and those of the farmers affected . "
This echoed the government statement , which did not explicitly mention compensation , but said the interests of the farmers concerned would be protected .
It added that inquiries were continuing to determine responsibility and to " prevent a recurrence of such anomalies . "
The French move was the most drastic response by any European country since the mishap came to light last week .
Sweden on Wednesday ordered GM rapeseed crops sown this year to be destroyed by July 7 unless farmers obtained special permits .
French officials had initially said there was no legal basis for destroying the crops affected because the level of contamination was below one percent .
Anti-GM campaigners slammed that response , saying it was at odds with the so-called precautionary principle , a policy championed by France which allows countries to curb products even if they have not been scientifically proven to cause harm .
Left-wing farmers ' union Confederation Paysanne on Thursday praised the government 's decision to rip out the plants , calling in addition for a ban on seed imports from countries which grow transgenic crops because of potential contamination risks .
Environmental group Greenpeace said the accident highlighted the danger that other types of seed could be contaminated .
The group said on Thursday that up to 15 percent of this year 's EU maize crop includ GM material .
" Today , some 300,000 hectares of maize could be contaminated in France , " Greenpeace France director Bruno Rebelle said in a statement .
Oilseeds producer lobby FOP said the destruction of the crops would ease public concerns , but it was worried that innocent farmers would pay the price for the debacle .
" We are satisfied that this decision was taken if it unblocks the situation , but that does n't mean we are jumping for joy , " said a spokesman for the lobby .




Corel Does n't Rhyme With Morale

OTTAWA -- Employee morale is slumping and several senior executives are jumping ship as struggling Canadian software developer Corel Corp. readies a dramatic cost-cutting plan that could include hundreds of layoffs .
Ottawa-based Corel , which late Thursday announced a much-needed financing deal worth CN$15 million to CN$30 million , is now expected to slash expenses in the wake of its failed merger with Inprise/Borland Corp.
Best known for its word processing and graphics software until last year 's push into the Linux operating system market , Corel had warned it could run out of cash by July if the Inprise/Borland merger failed or if it did n't find financing .
The aborted merger withdrew Inprise/Borland 's $ 240 million cash reserves from Corel 's reach and nixed a $ 29.5 million termination fee .
Corel said in March it expects to lose money for the next two quarters .
Analysts are now waiting for details on how Corel will cut costs by $ 40 million annually -- savings widely expected from dramatic layoffs among the company 's 1,391 full-time staff .
Including part-time and student staff , the company has a total of about 1,500 employees .
The company would not comment on a media report that 400 jobs could be cut , but that figure may be conservative , said Jean W. Orr , an analyst at Bluestone Capital Partners , who follows Corel .
The company may need to trim about 500 jobs , which at an average salary of $ 60,000 , translates to $ 30 million annually .
Corel could also cut about $ 10 million from advertising to meet its $40-million target , Orr said .
" It 's basically a work in process , " Corel chief executive Michael Cowpland told Reuters of the cost-cutting plan . "
I think we 're only a couple of weeks away really . "
Meanwhile , the mood among staff is " good , considering the fact that , obviously , we 've got to go through a bit of a gear change and tune up , " he said .
Sources close the company , however , say that uncertainty has left staff dispirited and apprehensive .
" There 's certainly a lot of resumes floating around , " said a former Corel employee who did not want to be named .
Morale took another hit last week when Corel employees traveling for trade shows were forced to pay hotel bills with their own credit cards after learning the company 's credit cards had been canceled .
Any " glitches " could be attributed to Corel 's transfer to another credit company , a Corel spokeswoman said .
" The longer it takes them to implement this cost-cutting , I would think the worse it is for morale , and the problem is that you do lose the good people , " said Orr .
" When they go voluntarily , those are the ones that easiest to get another job -- and you do n't get them back . "
find it
The company confirmed its executive vice-president of corporate services , a 10-year Corel veteran , and its vice-president and general legal counsel have resigned .
Corel said the departures , effective in June , are not related to performance or financial issues .
Corel also confirmed to Reuters that its vice-president of finance left in April , and that a Linux product manager and vice-president of new ventures marketing have also departed .
Corel has since appointed a vice-president of Linux and a director of Linux product development .
" It 's not going to impact our ability to meet our deadlines with regards to Linux , " said Corel spokeswoman Catherine Hughes .
Corel will launch a Linux version of its graphics software in July .
Investors , who sent Corel stock into dramatic declines after the Inprise/Borland deal died , appeared unimpressed by the company 's financing news .
Corel stock dipped 78 Canadian cents to CN$4.92 on the Toronto Stock Exchange Friday morning , while on Nasdaq the issue slipped 18/32 to 3-9/32 on slim trade .
" We 've been through challenging times before and we 're actually very , very confident , " said Cowpland . "
Once we 're through this kind of little cloudy stage , we 'll be looking real good . "




Recycling Bill Sent to Car Makers

BRUSSELS , Belgium -- Car makers will have to pay the costs of recycling both existing cars and new cars from the 2001 model year under the European Union end-of-life vehicles law .
A conciliation committee of diplomats from the 15 EU member countries and members of the European Parliament agreed to the measures Tuesday night .
The breakthrough is the agreement that car makers will have the same responsibility for " existing " cars put on the market before 2001 .
The deal is a final rebuff for the parliament 's attempts to weaken producer responsibility for recycling cars already on the road .
It is a victory for the European Commission , which had staunchly supported governments ' efforts to make manufacturers pay for the recycling of all cars .
The parliament 's attempts to substantially weaken bans on heavy metals in car manufacture have also failed .
The meeting ended with the common position agreed by governments last year largely intact .
Manufacturers will pay " all or a significant part " of the costs of a free take back and recycling scheme for " new " cars put on the market from 2001 , rather than enjoying the 18-month delay that parliament had wanted to introduce .
It is this provision which had become the central point of dispute in talks over the directive , with Europe 's car industry protesting that any retroactive responsibility would be illegal and financially crippling .
The parliament appeared to support the car makers when it narrowly passed a confusing amendment endorsing the free take back and recycling scheme for existing cars but leaving it unclear who would fund it .
Rapporteur Member of the European Parliament Karl-Heinz Florenz , an opponent of retroactive responsibility , jubilantly claimed that the 15 EU member states would have to decide how much of the burden fell on producers .
MEP
He maintained this stance in preliminary talks with diplomats before Tuesday 's full conciliation meeting .
But his interpretation was supported only half-heartedly by other MEPs and openly opposed by many .
Sources at the meeting said Florenz found himself " in a minority " -- facing government diplomats extremely reluctant to reopen an agreement reached among themselves last year only after much trauma .
In the end , the parties agreed that retrospective responsibility would be delayed just one year to 2007 .
The second major issue resolved is the timing of a ban on lead , cadmium , mercury , and hexavalent chromium in car manufacture .
The ban will take effect from 2003 instead of 18 months after the law enters into force , as had been favored by EU governments .
The parliament had wanted to delay the ban until 2005 .
In a second reverse for the parliament , the ban will apply to individual cars rather than models , effectively bringing forward the phase out by up to seven years .
Parliamentary demands to exempt lead wheel balancing weights and cadmium batteries from the ban also fell , in line with a recent study showing that alternatives exist .
The Commission said today the agreement is " highly satisfying " and " very promising " for planned legislation on waste electrical and electronic equipment .
Commissioner Margot Wallstrm said the Commission had " achieved its key objectives " of improving waste management and removing a number of hazardous materials from the environment .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS




Vodafone Remains Robust

LONDON -- For investors worried about how Vodafone AirTouch can cope with the cost of third-generation , or 3G , mobile licenses and the acquisition of Mannesmann AG , next week 's annual results may go some way to easing their concerns .
With the world 's largest mobile phone operator forecast to report operational cash flow of around 3.8 billion pounds , the statement should remind the market of how Vodafone is raking in the money .
$ 5.60 billion
It 's the ability of the company to squeeze telephone-number sums of cash out of the airwaves that makes most analysts pretty relaxed about Vodafone 's finances , even before it sells Orange and other subsidiaries .
Despite some initial jitters as the bidding in Britain 's 3G auction escalated beyond all expectations , nobody is predicting the billions of pounds that Vodafone pays out in international licence fees will leave much of a dent in its bottom line .
For one thing , the newly acquired European base and the take-off of the mobile Internet are forecast to inflate Vodafone 's revenues by more than 20 percent a year over the next five years .
For another , the company has numerous options for reducing its debt by selling or floating subsidiaries -- starting with Orange .
Vodafone had planned to give away shares in Orange to shareholders -- effectively paying them a special dividend -- but analysts believe the unexpected cost of the licences will force it to sell the British mobile operator to another company , or opt for a public flotation .
A sale to France Telecom , which is expected to make a cash-and-share offer for Orange next week , would largely wipe out Vodafone 's current debt of around 25 billion pounds .
The cost of acquiring third-generation UMTS licences around the world would then saddle it with 20 billion pounds of fresh debt .
But Vodafone will offset part of that through the sale of Mannesmann 's industrial arm , Atecs , and stakes in U.S. mobile operator Verizon and Australasian unit Vodafone Pacific .
The net result would be a more manageable debt load of 12 billion pounds , according to UBS Warburg .
Add in the sale of Mannesmann 's fixed-line and watch businesses and a 7.5 percent stake in Cegetel of France and the balance sheet starts to look a lot healthier .
" We are less concerned than we were about the cash required for UMTS , " said Christian Maher of Investec Henderson Crosthwaite Securities . "
Vodafone has several sources of cash if it needs it . "
Shareholders appear to be reaching the same conclusion .
After sliding sharply because of the general slump in technology and telecoms stocks and worries about licence costs , Vodafone shares have started recovering on the prospect of an Orange sale .
The stock has bounced back to 285 pence from a recent low of 238.5p .
But with the shares still well shy of their peak of 401p , most analysts believe it 's a steal .
Twenty out of 25 brokerages covering Vodafone rate it a strong buy , according to DigitalLook.com .
What most excites the City about the company is the evolution of the mobile phone from a voice communication device into a pocket-sized computer .
Even with the current slow , low-tech mobile Internet services , the potential of WAP technology for Vodafone is clear .
People who once used their mobiles for only a couple of calls a day now reach for their handsets every time they get in a cab or enter a waiting room -- to spend 10 pence a minute reading news off the Internet .
Indeed , now that the initial shock over Britain 's auction prices has passed , analysts are coming around to the view that the licences will prove excellent value to Vodafone .
That 's not just because of the multimedia services 3G will provide , but also because the licences will give Vodafone a wide swath of new spectrum to keep adding voice customers .
" If you look at the potential these networks have for taking voice minutes off BT or Deutsche Telecom , these licences are not just going to be attractive , but highly attractive , " said John Tysoe of West LB Panumure .




Amex Nixes X-Rated Exchanges

" At Suzee 's Smut Shop Dot Com , you can see enough naked booty to make your libido boil over -- but bring your Visa , because Suzee 'll take off all her clothes before your eyes , but she will n't take American Express .
In fact , no online smut site will take American Express . "
OK , maybe Suzee 's Smut Shop does n't exist , and Visa advertisements for online porn do n't , either .
But the last part is true : In a few weeks , no online porn site will take American Express .
At least , American Express will no longer cover credit card transactions from porn sites .
" We 've examined the digital adult content industry for a year and determined that there was an unacceptably high incidence of disputes about transactions , " said American Express spokeswoman Joanne Fisher .
As a result , American Express decided early this month to terminate all of its adult website merchant accounts .
The company has been contacting merchants by mail for the last week , Fisher said .
Tom Fisher , general manager of card-processor CCBill , which handles card transactions for 4,000 porn sites , got his Amex letter Monday .
He 's not happy .
" We 're really disappointed that American Express decided to take this action , " he said . "
We 're very sorry for the inconvenience it 's going to cause our customers . "
While American Express transactions account for just a tiny fraction of charges CCBill processes , the lost business will hurt , Fisher said .
Although American Express declined to release dollar amounts , Internet analysts estimate that online porn sites bring in more than $ 1 billion every year .
Grousing on adult webmaster message boards echoes Fisher 's sentiments .
" While my Amex revenues as a whole are comparatively small , representing only about $ 500,000 annually , it STILL is more than chump change and pisses me off , " wrote one poster in a forum at Ynotmasters.com .
American Express shrugs off the complaints , saying the decision boils down to simple economics .
While online merchants themselves have to foot the bill for phony charges , American Express has to pay administrators to process the disputes .
And a lot of porn site charges are disputed .
Fraud accounts for some disputes ; many porn sites bill by using business names that are different from the website name ; and many porn surfers deny they 've made the charges when confronted by a spouse -- something pornographers refer to as the " gak factor . " .
Husbands run up a credit card bill at a smut site , then go " gak " when their wives see the monthly statement
All those disputes adds up to big money hole , Amex 's Fisher said .
" We were incurring all the administrative costs of processing the disputes .
It was n't profitable , and it was n't practical , " she said .
It may not be such a money hole for credit card companies like Visa and Mastercard , said CCBill 's Fisher .
Those companies have worked more actively with adult sites to reduce the rate of charge backs , and they seem happy with the business .
Logically , they 're about to get more of it .
" CCBill will be sending an email to all current American Express customers notifying them of the situation and asking them to return to the website to sign up using a Visa , MasterCard , Discover Card , or Online Checks , " wrote CCBill in a letter to the 4,000 adult website operators that process credit transactions through CCBill .
Visa did not return calls seeking comment for this story , and Mastercard officials could not be reached .




Streamlining the Search for Music

You 've got the latest portable music player , and your PC has the latest RealJukebox and the Windows Media audio players .
What you do n't have is a lot of music , or a way to track releases from the new musicians you 've discovered while trolling online .
< / p
Three new music search engines are about to change all that , simplifying finding downloads and news about your favorite garage band .
Gigabeat.com , which launches on Thursday , will offer a mix of editorial content and collaborative filtering that leverages a database of users ' preferences to find downloads and Internet radio stations that match your tastes .
The filtering engine also returns a visual representation of similar artists .
Dubbed the DigiSpiral , bands with similar styles and common band members are displayed along a reverse-S swirl .
While Gigabeat.com offers the unique radio search , two other new search engines focus on providing more comprehensive guides to downloading music .
Listen.com , one of the Internet 's most comprehensive directories for locating downloadable music , added information from the Muze database on Friday .
Now with over 67,000 artists in its catalogue and 5,000 videos , the company has become one of the better sources for finding music online .
The site , which links to over 1,000 websites where music is available , aggregates information on CDs and on free and pay-for singles .
The addition of the Muze database fills in a large hole listen.com had in its directory -- namely data on major label artists such as Led Zeppelin .
While many of the label bands do n't offer music for sale online , users can still head to sites to get bands ' biographical information .
Listen.com also employs 40 full-time music reviewers who categorize music into over 600 musical categories .
In fact , the company operates very much like John Cusak did in the movie High Fidelity , offering up their musical knowledge to users .
" This is all about human beings , " said Tim Quirk , managing editor for Listen.com . "
Computers and automations can n't make subjective decisions about music ; they can only say this box matches with this box .
We have passionate knowledgeable music fanatics who are connecting the dots , and that makes all the difference . "
But sometimes , you do n't want to hear the music someone else tells you is good .
MusicMatch.com offers users the opportunity to receive music recommendations based on the music queued up in their player .
By its own type of collaborative filtering , the MusicMatch engine searches the network for people who are listening to the same artists you are .
Then the engine searches for other music those folks have played , and sends back a list of musicians and songs you might want to check out .
" The cool thing about the MusicMatch Jukebox is that most people started off with their own CDs and not with downloads , " said Bob Ohlweiler , senior vice president of sales and marketing at MusicMatch .




MD Treatment Goes to the Dogs

Dogs with muscular dystrophy were able to function normally after scientists treated them with an experimental gene therapy , a new study shows .
Researchers at the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases tested the method using golden retrievers that scientists bred to have Duchenne muscular dystrophy , the most common childhood form of MD .
The research was directed by Dr. Richard Bartlett of the NIAMS and was published in this week 's issue of Nature Biotechnology .
The gene that is mutated in MD patients is so large that it makes gene therapy difficult .
To get a gene into the human body , scientists often use a vector , or carrier such as an altered virus , to deliver the healthy gene .
The larger the gene , the more difficult it is to send into the body , and the more likely it is to cause an adverse immune response .
The NIAMS researchers used a gene therapy technique called gene repair .
Instead of replacing an entire faulty gene with a healthy one , researchers created a small molecule called an oligomer , which is identical to the section of the gene containing the mutation , and corrected only the error .
Muscular dystrophy is a disease caused by a gene defect that results in the wasting away of muscle tissue .
Duchenne MD is caused by a defect in the gene that codes for dystrophin , a protein that attaches to other proteins in muscle cells and helps anchor them to connective tissues .
The genetic mutation causes the dystrophin protein to die prematurely .
Bartlett and his colleagues created an oligomer that was able to activate repair enzymes and incorporate a corrected gene sequence into the dog model .
The experiment succeeded in restoring the normal function of the dystrophin protein .
Much work has been done on treating the mouse model for MD using direct injection of DNA , delivering gene therapy via viral vectors , and transplantation of muscle cells , but researchers have seen only modest , short-term results .
Researchers say the latest results are impressive , but note that the technique has a long way to go before it can be used in humans .




Canada Scraps Citizen Database

Bowing to pressure from its own privacy commission , the Canadian government said Monday it would dismantle a gargantuan database that contains up to 2,000 bits of information about each Canadian citizen .
The database , called the Longitudinal Labor Force File , contains data compiled from tax returns , child tax benefit payments , welfare files , federal job programs , job training and employment services , employment insurance files , and the nation 's health insurance master file .
LLFF
The LLFF came under intense scrutiny in the parliament and media beginning two weeks ago , when Canada 's privacy commissioner , Bruce Phillips , released an annual report detailing pointed objections to the database 's breadth and lack of privacy protection .
" Privacy commissioners have assured Canadians that there was no single federal government file , or profile about them , " Phillips said two weeks ago . "
We were wrong -- or not right enough for comfort . "
On Monday , Canada 's Ministry of Human Resources Development -- the ministry in charge of the database -- said it had scrapped the software used to link information from separate databases , returned data obtained from the Canadian Customs and Revenue Agency , and instituted a series of policies to ensure that remaining data will be handled responsibly .
HRDC
Data used in research , for instance , will be stripped of all personal identifiers .
No data will be deleted however -- it will simply reside in separate databases rather than one master file .
" Given concerns about privacy issues in this era of advanced and constantly changing technology , I have chosen an approach that addresses future threats to privacy , " Jane Stewart , Canada 's minister of human resources development , said in a statement .
Stewart said the ministry would also establish an external advisory committee to monitor its use of data in future research and policy analysis .
The committee will include the Office of the Privacy Commissioner .
All of this was welcome news to the privacy commissioner , who said the ministry 's actions addressed all of the concerns outlined in his annual report .
" I want to take particular note of the spirit in which our discussions have taken place , and the clear demonstration of your determination to improve the supervision and management of your information systems in ways that strengthen the privacy rights of Canadians , " Phillips wrote in a letter to the HRDC .




Brits : Net Monitor Is Not a Spy

LONDON -- Plans to allow British security services to monitor Internet traffic will not create an all-seeing cyberspace spy , the government said on Friday .
Civil liberties groups have said the Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill would give police free rein to snoop on Internet users and could lead to people being jailed for forgetting their computer passwords .
RIP
But the government said the bill only updates police powers to intercept and monitor communications , bringing them up to speed with increasingly techno-savvy criminals .
" We 've seen the growth of very strong encryption codes , virtually unreadable in fact , which are good for e-commerce security but can be used in other ways , " a Home Office spokesman said .
" Criminals are innovators , and pedophiles , for example , could disguise their activities through encryption . "
He confirmed that people who refused to reveal encryption keys to police -- allowing them to read coded information -- could face a two-year jail sentence under the bill .
" The police have to prove the encryption key was deliberately withheld , " the spokesman said .
" We 're not talking about people going to prison for forgetting passwords . "
The bill had its second reading on Thursday in the House of Lords , Britain 's upper chamber of parliament , and should go to a final reading in mid-June , the spokesman said .
Home Secretary Jack Straw introduced the bill earlier this year to a chorus of disapproval , mainly over its power to force Internet service providers to grant police access to a huge amount of information on internet users .
ISPs
Civil liberties groups said the bill would make it far easier for police to access web surfers ' personal and banking data , lists of websites visited , and even allow real-time monitoring of people 's Internet activity .
But the Home Office insisted the bill gave no new powers to security services , and that they would need a special warrant to access information from ISPs .
" Interception of communications is only used on the authorization of the Home Secretary himself , " the Home Office spokesman said .
" And it 's only used in defense of national security or on suspicion of serious crime , like narcotics smuggling or terrorism . "
He said about 2,000 warrants for communications interception were issued last year .
The government wanted the bill passed before October , the spokesman added , when British law is due to become fully compliant with the European Convention on Human Rights .




Online Therapy Is n't Shrinking

The idea of online therapy has lots of folks in the industry wondering whether it 's any better than Lucy Van Pelt hanging up a sign reading , " Psychiatric Help 5 cents . "
Online therapy is dangerous , critics say .
Quacks could set up shop and scam customers .
Discontents who are looking for a quick fix could score drugs with a simple mouseclick .
The entire mental health industry may degenerate into a Geraldo Riverian mess .
At a Capitol Hill news conference last week , a coalition of medical practitioners and patient advocates released a set of guidelines to keep that from happening before the government gets a chance to step in and do it for them .
But critics say those standards might not be enough , and warn that mixing professional counseling with the Internet is a potentially volatile situation that the government is not likely to ignore .
The guidelines -- the eHealth Code of Ethics -- are n't revolutionary .
They 're voluntary rules drawn up by the Internet Healthcare Coalition that ask the players in this field to stay the course and follow a set of standards that some sites say they were already following .
and in the electronic health field in general
The rules ask sites -- of which there are an estimated 300 -- to disclose financial ties they may have with other companies or organizations and to protect patients ' privacy and let them know exactly how their information will be used .
Gunny Cho , CEO of the online therapy site Here2listen.com , said his company was already adhering to the guidelines suggested in the new code .
" We were taking the highest of the high moral ground , " he said .
Cho said most of the people who use Stanford University-backed Here2Listen 's fee-based , real-time chat service are looking for help with personal relationships and life 's stresses .
None of them will be hooked up with drugs , he said , because Here2Listen 's shrinks are there to listen , not prescribe .
Cho is a businessman , though , and has no background in the mental health field .
Psychology-ethics expert Thomas Nagy is wary of how his field is embracing the Internet as a clinical medium .
The assistant clinical professor at Stanford Medical School 's Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences , who maintains a private practice as a psychologist in Palo Alto , says online therapy is rife with risks .
" There 's no training or research in Internet therapy , and there 's no definition of what it is , " he said .
He said face-to-face counseling , or at least telephonic therapy , is always superior to online therapy .
" With words on a screen you have such a narrow bandwidth of emotional overtones , " he said . "
I would always argue for telephone consultation instead of email therapy .
I think there 's so much more information available , you can at least tell something about emotional tone . "
a patient 's
Glenn Marron , a psychologist who maintains a private practice in New York and once served as consultant to the government , agreed that the industry is moving quicker than it should .
" I think there 's no question that ultimately this indeed is going to be one of the main formats for mental health , " she said . "
The technology is far more advanced than the infrastructure and guidelines we have . "
The mental health industry has been moving toward " telehealth " -- the use of electronic communications and IT to support clinical care -- for years .
The U.S. Department of Commerce says telehealth is employed by the mental health industry more than any other health field .
Both Nagy and Marron are concerned that a patient might have signs of symptoms or disabilities that would be invisible to a therapist communicating via email and chat .
No code , they said , is going to change that .




Commerce Gets Behind the Wheel

It 's Saturday night .
You 're headed downtown to catch a show but you 're running late .
You get on the freeway but it 's jammed with traffic .
So , you use the built-in car phone to connect to a service that can find a different and less trafficked route .
The service gives you three options : downtown in an hour for $ 5 ; downtown in 45 minutes for $ 10 , or there in half-an-hour for $ 20 .
With Americans spending more time in their cars , a service like this may be just around the corner , said proponents of telematics , an area that blends computing with wireless telecommunications .
" Beyond FM radio and billboards there 's been no great in-vehicle information exchange in the last 20 years , " said Thomas Ross , a vice president with InfoMove , a Seattle startup that is developing Web applications for automobiles .
Theresa Nozick , an analyst with Mobile Insights , said it 's a no-brainer that wireless information services will come to cars .
" That 's the way it 's going to go , " she said . "
It just makes sense that people will want access to certain kinds of information in their cars .
It 's something we 're going to see a lot more of . "
InfoMove on Tuesday announced a licensing deal with InfoSpace , which offers infrastructure services to websites , e-commerce companies , and wireless providers .
The deal at first will allow InfoMove to deliver information to cars and cell phones about the weather , stock quotes , maps , and local restaurants and hotels , but will quickly lead to real-time navigation and traffic updates , and eventually to a range of imaginative , location-based information services , Ross said .
" Once you have an intelligent node on the network , these are the kinds of applications you can get , " Ross said . "
All that is required is an X/Y coordinate and a connection to the Internet . "
Ross said Americans are spending so much time in their cars -- upwards of 500 million hours a week -- that everyone and their aunt is eager to start reaching them , especially the big automakers , which will be equipping most luxury cars with telematic systems by 2003 and all new vehicles by 2005 .
Detroit 's primary goal is maintaining a relationship with the customer to make sure they do n't switch brands when they buy their next car , Ross said .
But auto executives are also interested in a range of new services , from information to entertainment .
Ross said auto executives are even beginning to joke about giving cars away for free and making money on services .
" They 're desperately trying not to miss out on this , " Ross said . "
The revenue potential is staggering , given the captive audience . "




Web Shows : Does Anybody Watch ?

Over million viewers tuned in to the latest Victoria 's Secret fashion show webcast -- but will Web viewers show up in droves to watch anything other than supermodels in their underwear ?
For years tech industry experts have predicted the convergence of computers and TV but nearly every experiment in Web broadcasting drew anemic ratings .
The failures were blamed on everything from a lack of advertising to tricky technology snafus .
But with video delivery systems improving by leaps and bounds and the exponential growth of broadband access , Net broadcasters are hoping the medium is about to explode .
One industry insider who 's watching with intense interest is Scott Zakarin , who created The Spot in 1995 .
The episodic Web series drew 20,000 viewers a day , a truly impressive audience during the Web 's infancy and a feat that 's not yet been matched by Web broadcasters .
He said he thinks technology held back both The Spot and later attempt Grape Jam .
" We were doing video in a 28.8 universe , " Zakarin said . "
bps
We were doing some really cool things and our audience was really engaged -- but it 's hard to keep an audience when half of them either can n't log on at all or can n't get the video to stream smoothly . "
Indeed , blurry , choppy video feeds were generally the only game in town before broadband became a reality .
But with more and more Net users connecting over high-speed networks and using vastly improved tools to access video feeds the medium is quickly getting up to speed .
Zakarin is planning to launch a new online show under his Creative Light Enterprises brand in the next year .
" Video is just far more reliable now , " he said . "
If I 'm trying to get RealVideo I can actually connect with the server and get a reliable feed that 's of good quality .
A couple of years ago that just did n't happen . "
Viewers who could n't get reliable feeds were a lot more likely to give up and turn back to television .
But those who use high-speed networks are now looking around for entertainment online .
Jim Safran , CEO of LikeTelevision said that new broadband users are often disappointed by the small amount of webcasts and video they find online .
" They have this brand new broadband connection and want to put their new toy through its paces , " he said . "
But besides us and a few sites that include video content as a sideline they may not find the amount of entertainment they expect . "
LiveTelevision currently offers 350 hours of broadband-enabled television shows , live event webcasts , and films .
Broadcast.com offers a small roster of on-demand films and webcasts from such stations as CourtTV and Tribune Media 's American Independent Network along with hundreds of Net radio signals .
Both Broadcast.com and LikeTelevision also supplement their coffers by offering video-on-demand services for corporations , a lucrative sideline for Web broadcasters who are still short on advertisers willing to take a leap of faith into an unproven industry .
" The medium just has n't been adopted on a mass level , " said Zakarin . "
Web broadcasts are usually just gimmicky stunts , not true attempts to get a mass audience . "
While some of the " stunts " have indeed drawn a good-sized audience , more concerted efforts to woo regular viewers have often failed -- witness the recent bankruptcy of former Net broadcaster DEN .
like the Victoria 's Secret fashion-show webcasts




Netcasters Put Ads in Your Ear

Radio listeners who have been turning to the Net for commercial-free music and news might not have the same great audio escape for much longer .
MP3.com , which is looking to make elevator music more hip , is one of many Internet broadcasters planning to supplement their banner-ad bucks with income from audio ads that interrupt your favorite musical interlude .
MP3.com on Tuesday announced a new online service to supply retail outlets such as shopping malls , restaurants , and grocery stores with music surrounded by ads .
The company formed a new division to promote the service , which offers a library of 424,000 songs and 67,000 artists to be delivered over the Internet .
The service will make it possible for businesses to insert their own advertisements into the music mix piped into their stores .
The company did not say whether music from the five major record labels will be included in the service .
A month ago , a U.S. District Court ruled that the San Diego company infringed upon copyrights held by the major record labels by illegally copying more than 80,000 albums into a database .
MP3.com is n't the first to see the benefits to tying audio ads to audio content .
Media management company Everstream recently created a service to help local news sites leverage their articles into an audio service that includes words from their sponsors .
The company will turn the text of articles and banner ads from regional publishers into customized broadcasts .
Once an ad is created , it can be inserted in the specific local music stream where the ad was purchased .
" We look just like a radio station , we have a local sales force -- which is the local newspaper sales force -- and then we have a national sales force in our home office , " said Stephen McHale , Everstream 's president .
" About 80 percent of ads are bought and sold in local markets .
But where people have been selling just banner ads , the sales force can now sell with banners and audio impressions and the graphic will be put on the tuner , and there will be a print ad that goes across the newspaper . "
Over 200 newspapers have signed up with Everstream , including the Knight Ridder newspapers and The New York Times .
Everstream also offers a co-branded music player and genre-based streaming music content that can be accessed from the newspapers ' homepages .
Lighteningcast , a firm specializing in audio advertising , wants to provide a service targeting Internet radio ads , similar to what DoubleClick has done for banner ads .
Lighteningcast CEO Tom Des Jardins said the company aggregates advertising impressions based on listener location , age , and gender across affiliate networks .
Broadcasters determine what types of advertisements they want and his company goes to ad firms and sells those impressions .




Schizophrenia Genes Discovered

Scottish scientists say they 've identified two genes that contribute to the development of schizophrenia .
David Porteous and his team at the Medical Research Council Human Genetics Unit in Edinburgh discovered the genes after 30 years of studying a Scottish family that has been plagued by schizophrenia and other mental illnesses .
The results of their study were published this month in the journal Human Molecular Genetics .
The researchers found that most of the family members shared two damaged genes located on the first chromosome of a human being 's 23 pairs .
Porteous named the genes " Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia " 1 and 2 , after finding that half of the family with the damaged genes developed schizophrenia , a severe psychiatric disorder characterized by hallucinations , delusions , and an altered emotional and behavioral state .
Porteous ' findings come just weeks after a researcher at the University of Toronto announced she had localized the " neighborhood " that one of the genes for the disease lives in.
While this latest discovery is considered promising , the research on the genetics of schizophrenia is far from over , and the hunt for other culpable genes is still on .
" What we do n't know at the moment is whether we are looking for five or six genes , or 50 or 60 , " Porteous said .
Schizophrenia generally manifests itself during late adolescence or early adulthood .
Experts say the disease afflicts about 1 percent of the population in the United States and Canada , and is the second-most common mental illness after depression .




Online Music Gets a Boost

After holding out on allowing any of its music catalog to be downloaded , Sony Music announced Wednesday that 50 tracks , including singles from Mariah Carey , Destiny 's Child , and Jessica Simpson , are now available online .
The tracks are available through 35 retailers in the Alliance Entertainment network , which includes Penny Lane Records and will be priced at $ 2.49 per song .
The songs are only available in the proprietary ATRAC3 format , which comes with Windows Media digital rights management .
Because of the security , the downloads will only play on devices that support the Secure Digital Music Initiative-compliant portable devices .
That means early adopters of the Diamond Rio music player are out of luck when it comes to purchasing these tracks .
Other labels have also announced intentions to dip into the digital download market .
Sony and Universal announced plans for a joint subscription music service .
BMG has plans to begin selling music this Christmas .
And EMI plans to offer up 100 albums and 40 singles through digital retail outlets starting in July .
For those music fans that want to hear their favorite artists perform live , MP3.com is now offering services for members to track down and purchase tickets to their favorite show using WAP-enabled cell phones .
By downloading the WAP application , dubbed the Wireless Live Events Calendar , users can access entertainment content through a cell phone , check for ticket availability , contact music venues , make reservations , and purchase tickets .
" Music is a killer app for wireless networks , " Shawn Conahan , director of wireless services at mp3.com , said in a prepared statement . "
Our product roadmap will free users from their PCs and create potential revenue opportunities for mp3.com 's music service provider partners . "




New Regs Wreak Research Havoc

A tiny clause in a State Department regulation is creating havoc for university research into satellite-related technology .
A single sentence , contained in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations act , classifies all spacecraft and satellite-related data as " significant military equipment " subject to strict national security controls .
As a result , universities are banned from sharing such technical information with foreign students , faculty , and collaborating researchers .
Top research institutions , such as Stanford University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , say the law is endangering the freedom of academic collaboration and the future of satellite research in the United States .
" They 're killing space-based research , " said Rachel Claus , defense counsel for the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center . "
A tremendous amount of our intellectual capital comes from abroad .
If this situation continues , we will fall very far behind . "
At risk are projects such as Stanford 's Gravity Probe B , which aims to test Einstein 's theory of relativity by launching a satellite containing a giant thermos into space .
An Irish scientist , who developed the project 's particle detector device , is not allowed to participate in its testing because of ITAR regulations .
" If the particle detector fails to work , it 's a risk to the experiment we 're building , " said Francis Everitt , a lead researcher on the project .
Projects based on international collaboration are also in jeopardy .
Senior scientist John Mester says ITAR has hampered his satellite equivalency project , which is funded jointly by NASA and the European Space Agency .
Mester has not been allowed to give his European colleagues design drawings or have them look at the instrumentation .
" It 's definitely affecting how much we 've been able to get done , " Mester said .
Universities owe their current problems to a 1999 defense bill which shifted jurisdiction for satellite technology from the Department of Commerce to the State Department .
University research , previously subject to export regulations , now comes under ITAR , a law aimed at protecting military information .
As a result , any participation of foreign nationals requires an " export license " -- a special waiver issued by the State Department .
The process can take up to six months .




Lucent Beefs Up on Fiber Optics

Lucent Technologies Inc. , the world 's biggest maker of telecommunications equipment , said on Wednesday it would buy fiber optical networking equipment company Chromatis Networks for $ 4.5 billion in stock .
The purchase of privately held Chromatis is part of Lucent 's effort to strengthen its arsenal of products in the red-hot fiber optical networking market .
Chromatis , based in Herndon , Virginia , makes gear for urban areas , which has been a weak spot in Lucent 's product mix .
Chromatis ' Metropolis product allows multiservice traffic , such as voice , data , and video , to travel efficiently on crowded metropolitan networks .
- - -
Bayer to compete with Viagra : German drug maker Bayer said on Wednesday it plans to introduce an anti-impotence pill for men that could take on Pfizer 's lucrative Viagra .
Bayer , best known for inventing aspirin , said it planned to sell its treatment for erectile dysfunction worldwide in mid-2002 .
Several companies across the Atlantic are also striving to develop a rival alternative to Viagra .
The compound used in the Bayer pill , which is in clinical trials , is called Vardenafil and is taken orally to improve blood flow .
- - -
Microsoft expects boost in China : Microsoft said on Wednesday its revenue growth in China was likely to double in 2000 , driven by income from original equipment manufacturing agreements .
Microsoft 's China operation , with 500 people in offices around the country , was its sixth largest revenue-generating market after Japan , South Korea , Taiwan , Hong Kong , and India .
Microsoft does not release revenue breakdown for its subsidiaries , except for Japan .
Japan accounts for about 70 percent of total Asian business , which would be about US$ 2.5 billion this year .
- - -
Softbank setback in Japan : Flagship Japanese Internet investor Softbank suffered an apparent setback when it failed to reach an agreement by a Wednesday deadline on terms with the government to buy bankrupt Nippon Credit Bank .
Japan 's Financial Reconstruction Commission said it was now ready to reopen talks with other companies on the sale , a development analysts said that may reflect Softbank 's weakening financial position after a recent plunge in its share price .
FRC
- - -
Motorola to outsource parts : Motorola said Wednesday it signed an outsourcing pact with Flextronics International Ltd. worth more than $ 30 billion over a five-year period and will take a small stake in the contract manufacturer .
Flextronics will supply and manufacture certain parts and units included in Motorola 's wireless phone , two-way pager , wireless infrastructure products , and other devices , the companies said in a joint statement .
The deal is the latest in the recent trend of broad outsourcing pacts by electronics makers with smaller firms like Flextronics and Solectron Corp.
- - -
Secure transactions : Internet security firm VeriSign on Wednesday said it would offer a range of new products and services to safeguard transactions over networks and allow them to be accessed from various types of Internet devices .
The new products will allow financial institutions , health care organizations , and business-to-business exchanges to store and access private information and allow customers to execute secure transactions from almost any Internet-enabled device anywhere .
---
Free domain names for China : Network Solutions said on Wednesday it would offer free and discounted Web addresses to the Chinese government .
Network Solutions said the offering of 300 free and thousands of discounted domain names was an act of goodwill .
The move comes in the wake of the House of Representative 's approval of permanent normal trade relations with China .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Gamers Can Share and Swear

Gamers who like to abuse each other verbally while killing each other virtually have a new weapon in their online arsenal .
CenterSpan Communications on Wednesday introduced Socket , a utility that combines instant messaging capabilities with file sharing similar to Napster , and game collaboration that lets users find each other .
Socket 1.0 , available for free download , enables two or more people to chat real-time using text or voice and share applications such as NetMeeting or Baldur 's Gate by setting up a connection between the group so that they can all work or play together .
Socket is designed to be a general-purpose tool that can be used other tasks , such as family members sharing digital pictures across the Net , but the focus is on gamers who are familiar with the capabilities of sites like mplayer.com .
" We trying to eliminate a lot of the setup problems and allow people to get together around areas of interest , whether it 's about games or family , " said Rob Smart , CenterSpan 's VP of marketing . "
We just use gaming because it 's an easy way to grow the community . "
Smart said Socket will n't become a pirate 's tool because it does n't open up your PC files to all comers on the network , as Napster does with MP3 files .
The file sharing is only available to a person 's approved list of visitors , and limits access to selected folders .
Gaming is the most popular collaborative effort on the Internet , Smart said , but there 's a lot of headache when it comes to playing head-to-head .
Many games do n't have the easiest means of getting on the Internet for multi-player gaming .
CenterSpan will get revenue from referring users to game sites .
If a group of gamers all want to play , and one person does n't have the software , Socket will offer to send them to an e-commerce site that sells it and take a percentage of the transaction .
Currently , Socket only supports applications that support collaboration , such as NetMeeting , and games that support DirectPlay , a feature of Microsoft 's DirectX technology .
CenterSpan is working with more game publishers to build support for Socket into their games .
You can n't share MP3 files yet , and MP3 players are not collaborative .
Future versions of Socket will cover digital content including MP3 files , but Smart said the company is mindful of copyright concerns and will address those issues before the next release of Socket .
Billy Pidgeon , an analyst with Jupiter Communication , thinks Socket 's success will be based on word-of-mouth , but that it will be an uphill battle against established players .
" As a targeted chat device , if enough people who are into gaming and the people they play with use it , there 's a possibility for Socket to succeed , " he said . "
It comes down to what your friends are using .
If you 're buddies are on , then that 's what you 'll use . "
already
AOL Instant Messenger




Softbank Sells Chunk of Yahoo

TOKYO -- Japanese Internet investor Softbank Corp said on Thursday its U.S. unit sold part of its stake in Internet portal Yahoo , a move analysts said may help finance its planned purchase of a failed bank .
" It means they finally have the cash for NCB they did n't have the first time , " said Thomas Rodes , analyst at Nikko Salomon Smith Barney .
Nippon Credit Bank
Softbank America Inc sold 3.16 million shares in Yahoo to bank a $ 336 million profit , reducing its stake to 22.58 percent from 23.18 percent , Softbank Corp said .
Yet the sale underscored the view that Softbank has limited options if it needs to generate cash and some analysts suggested it should abandon its move for NCB as the purchase would push it too far from its core business .
" NCB is a mistake , " Rodes added .
Buying
Softbank and its consortium partners failed to agree to terms for NCB with the government by Wednesday 's deadline , but not everyone saw that as a bad thing .
" It was positive news .
I have been skeptical about Softbank 's plan to buy NCB as it would not fit well into its Internet-based business strategy , " said Kota Nakako , an analyst at UBS Warburg .
NCB , which collapsed under the weight of bad loans made in an asset-price bubble a decade ago , is a conventional " old Japan " bank that specializes in real estate-related lending .
It was placed under state control in December 1998 .
" Softbank has n't shown any clear-cut plan on how to make use of NCB .
From the viewpoint of its cash position it might be better for Softbank to abandon the purchase , " said Soichiro Fukuda , analyst at IBJ Securities .
Its shares tumbled 8.44 percent on Wednesday after news that it had failed to agree on terms for NCB but rebounded 4.24 percent on Thursday as the market decided that was good news .
" Softbank shares were apparently oversold yesterday ... the NCB ' setback ' is positive , " Nakako said .
On Thursday , Softbank shares ended at 17,200 yen , more than 70 percent below their peak in February due to doubts about high-tech valuations and volatility in U.S. markets .
Softbank has said it would use NCB as a lender to start-up ventures .
But the main financing vehicle for startups should be equity investment because young firms usually have insufficient collateral to risk against loans , analysts said .
" Bank loans can not serve as the risk capital that young firms need .
Thus , NCB would play only a marginal role in financing venture firms , " said an analyst at a major Japanese brokerage .
Analysts say they are concerned about possible hidden problem loans in NCB 's portfolio and this issue was a major reason behind the failure of talks between the consortium and the government .
A senior government official said on Wednesday there were wide differences between the two sides over the size of loan-loss provisions which the government would put up against NCB 's problem loans before selling the bank .
The consortium demanded higher provisions but the government refused , saying that would raise the amount of taxpayers ' money injected into NCB .
Even if the two sides agreed on loss provisions , there was no guarantee hidden problem loans would not surface later .
In fact , after the failed Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan was sold to U.S. investment group Ripplewood Holdings in February , some of its main borrowers such as Dai-Ichi Hotel collapsed , turning some of its loan portfolio sour .
" Dealing with various problems at NCB requires lots of energy on the part of management .
I do n't know why Softbank wants to buy such a troubled bank , " said Nakako of UBS Warburg .




Programmer Wants Fastest Finger

A contestant on ABC 's Who Wants To Be a Millionaire wrote a computer program to give himself an advantage in the crucial " Fastest Finger " round that propels winners into the Hot Seat and gives them a chance to become millionaires .
Jim Arnold , a programmer and technical writer from Cotati , California , spent two weeks using the software to train for his appearance on the hit show , which airs on Wednesday .
Arnold 's software generates four words at random and monitors how long it takes him to order them alphabetically using his computer keyboard .
The task closely resembles the " Fastest Finger " round , which requires contestants to quickly put four items in sequential order , such as the debuts of popular television shows or the birthdays of celebrities .
The person who puts the four items in the correct order the fastest is invited into Regis Philbin 's hot seat to compete for the jackpot .
Arnold said the software and his training regimen allowed him to shave his average response time from 4.5 seconds to 3.2 seconds .
" It 's a major advantage , " Arnold said . "
If you have a second on someone it 's very likely it will get you into the chair .
" I felt I got pretty close -- that I 'd got it down to the fastest time possible , " he added . "
I did n't even think about what my fingers were doing .
It was fully automatic . "
But when it came to crunch time , Arnold found himself having to order items concerning TV and movie trivia , which left him totally stumped .
" My fingers were fast , " he said . "
But my brain didnt know what to do . "
Unable to answer the questions , Arnold left the show empty-handed .
Arnold entered at the urging of his kids and tried a dozen times to qualify for the earliest rounds , which are conducted by an automated system over the phone .
According to the show 's website , about 240,000 people try to qualify every day for the first-round game , where hopefuls answer " Fastest Finger " questions using their telephone keypads .




Nike Fires Back at Protesters

LOS ANGELES -- Nike launched a major offensive Thursday against critics who charge it with poor labor practices by posting details on its website from the inspections of some of its 700 factories worldwide .
While the Beaverton , Oregon-based athletic shoe and apparel giant may not please protesters who have called Nike 's audits biased and inaccurate , " Transparency 101 " as it is called , will probably shed light on the plight of factory workers .
It also may spur feedback that improves Nike 's monitoring efforts , Nike spokesman Cheryl McCants said .
" The purpose of this is to expose the processes behind monitoring and help the public understand ... the reforms that have taken place , the length to which we have gone to make sure compliance and monitoring is as accurate as possible , and identify ways to fix issues and or problems once they 're found out , " McCants said .
The move comes after Nike chairman Phil Knight in April said he would stop donating money to his alma mater , the University of Oregon , and revoked a $ 30 million pledge toward upgrading its football stadium , because it belonged to a watchdog group called the Worker Rights Consortium that monitors factory conditions .
The WRC refuses to allow corporations like Nike a say in setting terms for working conditions at plants in Asia and Latin America .
Nike backs a competing group , the Fair Labor Association , which allows corporate participation .
Last month Nike also struck a one-year deal to supply swoosh-emblazoned athletic gear to the University of Michigan , which also belongs to the WRC , after squelching a $ 20 million , six-year deal in a flap over labor conditions .
Nike also recently severed ties to the hockey program Brown University , another WRC member .
A spokesman for WRC was not immediately available for comment Thursday .
WRC members have said in published reports that plant workers often face poor conditions and low pay with little chance to unionize .
They have also challenged the quality of the PricewaterhouseCoopers audit , saying factory owners spruce up their facilities in advance of audits and overseas workers are often afraid to tell the truth to foreign professionals .
Despite the criticism , Nike on Thursday began posting data on its website related to 53 North American factories making Nike products that PricewaterhouseCoopers audited in the past year .
Information on other factories will follow each quarter so that all four geographic regions will be covered within a year , McCants said .
North America , Asia/Pacific , Europe , Latin America
In addition , data on the site will be updated every month , so that visitors will be able to track improvements at the various locations .
Eventually Nike hopes to post data on all the factories it contracts with .
But , with the exception of plants that make its less-proprietary collegiate apparel , Nike will not disclose names and address of its factories for competitive reasons .
Nike also wants to avoid any repercussions against individual plants cited for noncompliance that could stem from publishing names and addresses , McCants said . "
We do n't want to point a finger at particular factory , " she said . "
We know the monitoring process works because we are finding inconsistencies . "
A quick scan of the Nike website shows that auditors of the North American plants found problems in 12 out of 14 designated categories .
The two biggest problem areas included the documentation of workers , and health and safety issues .
22 out of 35 U.S. factories were cited for this
Nike plans to add data from internal company audits and reviews by human rights groups including the unedited impressions of students from 16 U.S. universities who accompanied auditors during their spring break , McCants said .




Sinking or Swimming in the Net

SAN FRANCISCO -- James MacIntyre spent months on a road show selling investors on the merits of his company OneSoft , a maker of software for building e-commerce sites , when the bottom fell out .
OneSoft was set to raise $ 70 million in an initial stock offering valuing the entire company at nearly $ 300 million .
Investors lined up to buy the shares of the five-year-old company , which specialized in the fast-growing XML , a format that is expected to take over the future of e-commerce and was already generating strong sales for OneSoft .
extensible markup language
But between the time that OneSoft priced its stock and its planned offering was set to begin , Nasdaq took one of the biggest plunges in its history in April and most IPOs -- including OneSoft -- were put on hold .
" It was just bad timing .
Things were heating up for us in the commercial market just as the financial markets were cooling off , " said MacIntyre , the chief executive , founder and 20 percent owner of the company .
He soon found himself in a familiar position -- back out on the road talking to investors , this time trying to get the " private equity " financiers to take a piece of the company until it can finally be floated to the public in a better environment .
Within a few weeks , MacIntyre had raised $ 35 million , more than enough to keep the company afloat until the market recovers , he said .
But the stock market 's recovery could be a month , or years , or never , for some of the companies waiting to get funded in the public market .
Scores of companies are waiting for the same thing -- a strong rebound of a Nasdaq market that 's lost over one-third of its value since the peak level reached March 10 .
But even as the market tumbled last month , money was flooding into the venture capital funds that depend on a robust stock market to make their investments pay off .
The National Venture Capital Association reported that $ 21 billion flowed into the ventures in the year 's first quarter from $ 6 billion a year ago .
Two of the biggest venture funds ever assembled were announced in the month of May after the record sell-off .
So where will that money end up , with returns plummeting from the stock market 's tumble ?
To begin with , it 's not likely the funds will be able to continue getting the 35 percent to 50 percent annual returns they 've gotten in recent years , and the bigger the funds , the more difficult it will be to invest in profitable ventures .
Some venture funds will have an incentive to pour additional money into the companies they 've already funded , to nurture their growth , but others will want to cut their losses .
" People do n't want to throw good money in after bad , " said Murray Alter , of PriceWaterhouseCoopers venture capital tax practice . "
Up until now , there 's been a crowd mentality -- and the stock market has helped people realize their gains .
But once people have seen that the emperor has no clothes , it could be different . "




Analyst Puts Whammy on Sites

NEW YORK -- Buy.com , Autoweb.com , and at least 10 other Internet retailers will have to figure out ways to boost their cash reserves by the end of 2000 or in the first half of 2001 , Goldman Sachs ' electronic-commerce analyst Anthony Noto said Wednesday .
Since the beginning of 2000 , many online retailers have become painfully aware of an impending shakeout within the sector .
Analysts predict a significant consolidation within business-to-consumer electronic commerce that will thin the competitive clutter and help the top retailers extend their leads .
Since the fourth quarter of 1999 , seven of the 32 publicly traded consumer e-commerce companies have accessed the capital markets , while others have cut discretionary spending to conserve cash , Noto said in a research note .
Noto , after forecasting each company 's cash position by the end of 2000 , said 10 of the 32 will need to raise money , which could prove a challenge for those companies that have yet to display a successful business model and that lack a leadership position within their category .
In contrast , those companies that have reigned supreme within the business-to-consumer e-commerce market , such as retailing behemoth Amazon and " name-your-own-price " shopping service Priceline , will have enough cash to last them through fiscal 2001 and beyond without having to top up their reserves .
Noto divided so-called e-tailers into three tiers based on their cash positions , with online flower and gift retailer 1-800-FLOWERS.COM and bookseller Barnesandnoble.com on top , along with the likes of Amazon and Priceline .
Second-tier e-tailers , such as luxury retailer Ashford.com and toy retailer eToys , are among those that will have to curb spending in order to conserve cash as well as return to the capital markets for additional funding .
Third-tier companies , which include beleaguered CDNow and Peapod , will have difficulty continuing as " stand-alone " companies and are likely to fall victim to an Internet shakeout , he said .




Asteroid on Ice a Rare Find

Tagish Lake in rugged northern British Columbia was frozen in January and Jim Brook figured it was the perfect time to load his pickup truck with supplies and haul them on the ice to his remote lodge on the south shore .
What the bearded outdoorsman did not count on was finding , strewn for miles on the ice , what scientists are now hailing as one of the largest and most significant fields of meteorite fragments ever discovered .
They believe the rare charcoal-like chunks hold clues into the origins of the solar system .
Brook made his find last January 26 , eight days after a fireball caused by an automobile-sized meteorite sliced through the earth 's atmosphere , lighting up the early morning sky above the mountains between Carcross , Yukon , and Skagway , Alaska .
" As soon as I saw them on the lake I knew what they were .
I was aware of the fireball then and had been interested in it , " Brook , 46 , a soft-spoken outdoor guide and pilot , told a news conference held by scientists from the University of Calgary , University of Western Ontario , and NASA in Calgary on Wednesday .
The 200-ton asteroid , now known to be made of a very rare organic-rich substance and thought to be 4.5 billion years old , had been detected by U.S. defense satellites on its way toward earth .
Thousands of people in the region felt the earth shake as pieces of it hit the ground .
Upon seeing the fragments , Brook -- whose identity had been kept under wraps until now -- jumped out of his truck , scooped up a chunk weighing about 2 ounces and put it in a plastic bag .
He returned the next day for several dozen more .
The following week , snow covered the rest of the rocks , forcing scientists , told about the find by Brook , to wait until spring before being able to retrieve more pieces .
In April , the snow on Tagish Lake melted and researchers spent days on the meter-thick ice , where the fragments in the 10-mile field of rocks had become embedded .
Using a chainsaw , as well as spoons and even chopsticks , they painstakingly carved out ice chunks studded with meteorite , saving numerous organic compounds that would have been lost if the rocks had been left out in the elements , said University of Calgary associate professor Alan Hildebrand , who was part of the 13-person retrieval team .
He likened the experience to " sampling on the surface of a comet . "
In total , the team found 500 pieces , the largest about the size of a small potato , before the ice melted and the rest of the meteorite sank into Tagish Lake , researchers said .
The meteorite , made of a substance called carbonaceous chondrite , likely originated from a larger body from the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter .
Only about 3 percent of meteorite finds are of this type .
The last major ones were three decades ago in Australia and Mexico .
" This is probably the only time in our careers we 'll see this happening with this kind of meteorite , " Michael Zolensky , a cosmic mineralogist at NASA 's Johnson Space Center , said .
" Carbonaceous chondrites are very special because they date from the dawn of the solar system , and in fact they also contain stardust grains that predate the solar system . "
In the fragments are organic substances that contain building blocks for biological material , many of which could have fallen on the early earth .
The Tagish Lake fragments may also contain water , preserved by keeping them frozen , he said .
" A big question is where the water on earth arrived and how it arrived and where it formed .
If you can find samples of water trapped in calcium carbonates in this meteorite , as you probably will ... that will tell us a lot about the origin of water on the earth . "
The scientists said they were making the fragments available for study by researchers around the world .




Space As You 've Never Seen It

MOUNTAIN VIEW , California -- NASA has ended its probe to find a commercial partner to exploit its extensive image archive .
Silicon Valley start-up DreamTime announced on Friday it will provide high definition cameras on future NASA missions and will make the agency 's vast video and image library available online .
DreamTime , launched by former ExciteAtHome executives , was chosen by NASA from a field of a dozen competitors to provide cameras to broadcast the International Space Station and Space Shuttle launches using high definition digital television equipment .
" Houston , we have an opportunity " said DreamTime CEO and co-founder Bill Foster .
Under terms of the partnership -- one of NASA 's first public/private partnerships -- DreamTime will also digitize NASA 's 80-year archive of pictures and film and make it available on the DreamTime space portal , which will launch within six months .
NASA said the portal will provide the public with quick and easy access to decades worth of photos , film , audio , and documents , most of which is currently unavailable .
DreamTime will generate revenue from selling high-definition footage from space to documentary filmmakers and Hollywood .
Lower definition and analog footage will likely be made available for free , company officials said , although the details have yet to be worked out .
Low-resolution images from the archive will also be free , but DreamTime will charge for professional quality pictures , officials said .
DreamTime , which has a background in high-speed Internet access rather than film and television programming , beat out giants like Discovery and Disney , according to sources .
Steve Miley , a NASA analyst , said the start-up was chosen over seasoned media companies because of the level of access it will give the public to NASA imagery , its Internet expertise , and the amount of money it will sink into the partnership .
DreamTime will invest US$ 100 million to mount digital cameras and editing suites at NASA 's 10 regional centers around the U.S. , as well as the four space shuttles and the International Space Station .
" DreamTime understands the future of media delivery , " said Peggy Wilhide , NASA 's director of public affairs , during a press conference announcing the deal at the agency 's Ames Research Center . "
One of the best things about this partnership will be its impact on education . "
According to Miley , the majority of DreamTime 's competitors demanded other media companies be precluded from also filming space missions , an unacceptable level of exclusivity .
Under the deal , DreamTime will turn over a 5 percent equity stake to a foundation benefiting not-for-profits .
The partnership follows Congress ' 1998 Commercial Space Act , which called on NASA to strike partnerships with private companies to commercially exploit space exploration .
Space imagery for education and entertainment was quickly identified as the lowest hanging fruit .
" It will really allow everyone to share in the great adventure , " said Hollywood director James Cameron , who was patched into the conference by phone .




Furor Over Hostage Drama

LONDON -- The camera never lies -- so they say .
But as the hostage-taker holding children in Luxembourg discovered on Thursday , the people behind it may not be what they seem .
The armed man never knew what hit him when a police marksman shot him in the head after he was lured into the open under the pretext of a television interview .
Officials in Luxembourg openly credit the throng of reporters and camera crews around the daycare center with helping them to plot their strategy -- which reportedly included a gun disguised as a camera bearing the logo of local station RTL .
But the ruse has set off unease among many journalists about the media masquerade that ended the hostage incident .
The general secretary of the Brussels-based International Federation of Journalists , the world 's largest organization of its kind , called the police tactics " disturbing . "
" Cameramen are always potential targets when filming in a dangerous situation and incidents like this may put them even more at risk from trigger-happy criminals or security forces who may suspect their motives , " Aidan White told Reuters .
The Committee to Protect Journalists , based in New York , said the police actions in Luxembourg had " troubling implications . "
" We 're concerned about this and we 're looking into it , " deputy director Joel Simon said .
The managing director of Centurion Risk Assessment Services , a British company that runs courses for journalists working in dangerous areas , questioned why Luxembourg police did not shoot the hostage-taker when he appeared at a window .
Paul Rees , a former Royal Marine like all of his trainers , said the surprise element of the fake camera was now blown but that the hazards for the media had increased as a result .
" If there are terrorists or would-be terrorists out there , they 're not going to trust journalists ever again , " he said .
Police in Luxembourg declined to discuss whether a fake camera had been used , citing " operational reasons . "
They said the hostage-taker had recovered consciousness after an emergency operation .
RTL station manager Vic Reuter said police made a legal request for one camera , three jackets and a company car but had refused to say what the equipment would be used for .
" We have got the material back and there 's no damage .
I do n't know if they used our camera or they used another camera because there were rumors that they had a specially prepared camera from Germany , " he told Reuters .
" Stickers from RTL you find everywhere in Luxembourg .
You do n't need to call us -- it 's a giveaway for us . "
Reuter said RTL was happy to have contributed to the end of the crisis but was " aware of the ethical consequences . "
Adrian van Klaveren , head of news gathering at the BBC in London , said the media should not be co-opted into helping to resolve dangerous situations .
" We believe that there must be a clear separation at such incidents between the activities of police and security forces and the work of journalists , " he said . "
We will be putting forward our concerns to the appropriate authorities . "
Major Ivo Vereycken of the Belgian police Special Intervention Unit defended the decision by his Luxembourg counterparts to have officers pose as journalists .
" In this case , it was the right thing to do , " he told BRTN television . "
In specific situations , we should be able to carry out this kind of operation . "
But Rodney Pinder , head of television news at Reuters , said the police tactics set a dangerous precedent .
" What do we have in future hostage situations -- the gunman looking out , seeing TV cameras and not knowing what 's a real camera or what 's maybe a police marksman , " he said . "
So why would n't he open fire on them , just in case ? "




Canola Suit Blowing in the Wind

WINNIPEG , Manitoba -- A lone Canadian farmer will defend himself against big agribusiness Monsanto Co. in Canada 's Federal Court on Monday in a case that will get close attention from groups on both sides of the debate over genetically modified organisms .
Monsanto Canada Inc. has sought damages from Percy Schmeiser , a feisty 68-year-old farmer from the province of Saskatchewan , after accusing him of illegally using Monsanto 's patented genetically modified Roundup Ready seeds , court documents said .
Schmeiser has fought back by saying he has never bought Monsanto 's seeds for canola , a Canadian variant of rapeseed , and the rogue plants grew from seeds that landed on his fields by accident , perhaps spreading from nearby users of the genetically modified canola .
He also has questioned whether Monsanto Canada , owned by U.S.-based Monsanto Co. , a division of Pharmacia and Upjohn Inc. , had the right to patent the seeds -- life forms used for human consumption -- in the first place .
" I 'd rather be fishing with my grandkids , " Schmeiser told the Manitoba Co-operator newspaper this week .
" But my grandfather came to this country to be free and all of a sudden we have a multinational trying to exercise more control over farmers than governments would even dare to think of , " he said .
Three weeks have been set aside for the court case in the city of Saskatoon , 80 kilometers from the hamlet of Bruno , where Schmeiser farms and where Monsanto discovered its GM plants on his land and in adjacent ditches in 1998 .
50 miles
The herbicide-resistant canola was genetically altered by Monsanto to work exclusively with its Roundup herbicide , which when sprayed on a crop would destroy the weeds but not the canola .
" We have had a couple of meetings with Mr. Schmeiser as part of the process .
Unfortunately we 've been unable to reach a settlement with Mr. Schmeiser .
We 're going to trial now , " said Craig Evans , Monsanto 's general manager for biotechnology .
Evans said the company was seeking to protect the investments of 20,000 Canadian farmers who pay C$15.00 an acre to grow Roundup Ready canola , available in Canada since 1996 .
US$ 10.05




Pop Goes the Music Record

Napster and other Internet file-trading programs were supposed to cannibalize retail music sales and destroy the recording industry .
But thanks in part to clever Internet marketing , just the opposite has happened .
The music industry has smashed several retail sales records during the last few months .
Eminem fans last week flocked to the store to purchase 1.76 million copies of the rapper 's new album , The Marshall Mathers LP .
Britney Spears ' May 13 release sold 1.3 million copies .
And boy band ' N Sync 's album No Strings Attached moved a whopping 2.4 million units in April to become the highest first-week selling album of all time .
Insiders are attributing some of the retail success to Internet-based promotions .
" We created a lot of hype around the Eminem website , " said Ray Ibe , director of new media at the rapper 's label , Interscope . "
We offered downloadable clips at site farmclub.com about three weeks before the album came out .
Then we relaunched the Eminem site last week and the traffic was so enormous that we had to get four extra servers to handle the load . "
Interscope has a viral digital marketing plan to create a buzz for fans .
By gathering email addresses from an artist 's homepage , Ibe is able to send emails out to large groups of fans to let them know about upcoming events .
And that 's exactly what he did just prior to Eminem 's EmTV special on MTV .
Ibe also used the rapper 's fan site to seed the community with digital schwag -- postcards , browser add-ons , and other freebies .
" We have a new Quake level with Dre and Eminem fighting each other that 's going to be introduced on Thursday , " Ibe said . "
Dr. Dre
We are going to do a chat with AOL next month .
What we want to do is come up with a whole set of tools and keep rolling them out once a month to keep up visibility . "
Internet promotional
From a marketing standpoint , the Internet seems be a boon to sales , as long as the technology is kept under control .
" The Internet allows for a project to gain a head of steam before it comes out , " said John Parres , an Internet specialist with Los Angeles-based Artists Management Group .




The Hijacking of Web.net

TORONTO -- Cyberspace hijackers have stolen the Internet domain name Web.net , a hosting site for 700 charities , from its Canadian owners , exposing yet another of the Internet 's security flaws and jeopardizing the Web 's most valuable property -- your e-identity .
" This looks like international domain name laundering .
I think we 're going to start seeing more of this , " said Ken Campbell , president of K.K. Campbell Internet Consulting in Toronto , and the first to discover Web.net 's predicament .
Earlier this week , hijackers forged , or in Web language " spoofed , " Web.net 's email account , explained Campbell .
The hijackers also made crucial changes to the database of Network Solutions , where Internet addresses are registered , and changed the official owner of Web.net to Billy Tandoko of Jakarta , Indonesia .
The hijackers then moved Web.net 's registry to a micro-registrar in Toronto and changed the legal owner to Paul Vernon , allegedly of Hong Kong , and rerouted all traffic to reserveme.com .
Web.net is still not in control of its website , although as of Wednesday reserveme.com began redirecting mail and website inquiries back to Web.net 's servers , said Tonya Hancherow of Web Networks , the legal owner of Web.net .
The same hijackers made similar changes to the ownership of Bali.com , and Campbell has since uncovered one more case of website hijacking , but does not think the third case is linked .
Hancherow said she can n't believe such a breach of security is as easy as spoofing an email account .
" No password was provided and Network Solutions processed the change without consent , " said Hancherow .
The hijackers motives are still a mystery .
" I think I 'm witnessing an Internet version of international money laundering , whereby someone is scooping up domain names worth $ 100,000 each , moves them around so the paper trail is lost , and ends up with substantial assets , " said Campbell .
Hancherow first thought the hijacker was going to try to extort money from Web Networks , but their nonprofit status could complicate such a demand .
" The other two options : Is he trying to steal it so he can resell it , or is he just trying to play games to make our lives a bit more difficult ? " said Hancherow .
Brian O'Shaughnessy , a spokesman for Network Solutions , told Reuters this type of hijacking has happened at least a dozen times in the past year and Web Networks is a victim of the excessive volume his company is experiencing from people registering domain names .
" A new dot-com is added every 5 seconds .
Domain names are a valuable piece of property and that 's what people are looking for : a valuable identity on the Internet , " said O'Shaughnessy .
" The rightful owner still has the domain .
An unlawful act has been committed using a hole in the system , " he added .
With the introduction of competition to the domain name registry field in June 1999 , a complex layer has been added to the system , making hijacking easier , said O'Shaughnessy .
Nevertheless , Campbell believes those businesses that have suffered substantial losses due to hijacking may want to take Network Solutions to court .
Campbell warned that there was no longer a central administrator guarding the Internet 's security , as there was before 1993 , when the Clinton administration transformed the Internet from academic tool to commercial medium .
" They took away those kind of feudal lords and brought in the naked system that is not very secure , " said Campbell . "
The Internet was based on a co-operative environment , not a fiercely competitive capitalistic environment , and that 's why these problems perennially show up . "




Not Your Father 's Oldsmobile ?

General Motors unveiled the auto industry 's largest sales promotion on the Internet on Friday , just in time for the summer selling blitz .
GM , the world 's largest automaker , launched the website , Ticket to Ride , offering incentives of up to $ 750 which are available only on the Internet .
The deals are on selected midsize cars and sport utility vehicles for Chevrolet , GMC , Oldsmobile , Buick , and Pontiac brands .
On Wednesday , DaimlerChrysler said it would provide cash and lease incentives of up to $ 2,000 on almost all vehicles , hoping to entice consumers into dealer showrooms as automakers fret over rising interest rates and stock market volatility .
GM said Ticket to Ride , effective June 1 through July 15 , uses the Internet to drive consumers to GM 's centerpiece website , where potential buyers can get find 6,300 car and truck dealers and locate the exact vehicle they are shopping for .
- - -
Having my iBaby : Online women 's network iVillage Inc. is in talks to sell its iBaby Inc. e-commerce unit to online baby-products retailer BabyGear.com , a company spokesman confirmed Friday .
The move to sell iBaby , which billed itself as the " baby everything store , " comes in the wake of management turnover at parent company , which operates women 's sites , and a shakeout in the online retail market .
" In a way , iVillage is smart to get rid of iBaby because they already are a parenting site if you look at who is visiting it .
It 's redundant to have iBaby ; they have to integrate , " said Ekaterina Walsh , an analyst at Forrester Research .
the content and commerce opportunities internally
She said all of the company 's e-commerce units , which include astrology.com , PlusBoutique.com , and iMaternity.com , may be phased out .
About 85 percent of the company 's revenue comes from advertising and sponsorship while 15 percent comes from its e-commerce units .
- - -
Sony goes gaming : Sony Pictures Entertainment said Thursday that it acquired online game company Verant Interactive , known for the blockbuster game EverQuest , to expand its online game businesses .
Sony Pictures also installed veteran video-game developer and Sony executive Kelly Flock as president and chief executive officer of its Sony Online Entertainment unit , which will consume Verant when the acquisition is completed .
The online entertainment company will move its headquarters to San Diego , where Verant is currently based .
Sony is laying off some staff in its offices in Culver City , California to consolidate operations in San Diego .
Reuters contributed to this report .




DVD Audio : New Fave or Failure ?

The long-awaited DVD audio format is finally rolling out , allowing users to play DVD movies and CDs as well as DVD audio discs on a single player .
Panasonic Consumer Electronics , a division of Matsushita Electric Corporation of America , announced two new DVD audio players for July release -- one under the Panasonic brand name , the other under the Technics brand name .
Also in July , the company will release a line of DVD audio ready components , including the DVD audio-ready receivers and speakers .
Later in the year will come a DVD audio/video player from Panasonic that goes into cars and SUVs .
DVD audio uses the high capacity of DVDs to store far more music information .
Because of this , DVD audio can play back music either in two-channel form , the way CDs do now , but with much higher resolution , or in six-channel form using a surround sound system .
Currently , CD audio has a 44.1kHz/16-bit bit rate , while two-channel DVD audio is 192kHz/24-bit playback .
Six-channel is 96kHz/24-bit , meaning the six-speaker mix of music is higher quality and has greater depth than two-channel compact disc .
The higher frequency and bit rate mean much better audio range for the music , allowing for more depth and all kinds of subtle , softer details to be heard .
The narrow bit rate of CDs means only so much data can get through , so a lot of subtleties are lost .
Panasonic thinks this will bring back one of the few advantages that vinyl had .
" When CD first came out a lot of people said it 's very nice , but it 's missing the warmth and atmosphere that records had because it did n't have the full range of data from analog records , " said Gene Kelsey , vice president and general manager of Panasonic 's audio division in Secaucus , New Jersey .
the
" DVD audio can put some of that back , but in a digital format , " he said . "
It can bring back the fuller experience because of the amount of data you can put on the DVD . "
Whether existing CDs are issued as DVD audio discs is up to the recording artists and record labels , but Panasonic says all of the major labels are on board and plan to issue music in this format by this summer .
In addition to the audio support , DVD audio-players will support interactive menus , just like the menus currently available on DVD movies .
The trick now is getting a mass market .
Playing a DVD audio-player requires an amplifier with six audio inputs on the back , something only newer and mid- to high-end players have .
" We think there is potential to be a mass-market product , " Kelsey said . "
Will it take over CD ?
That 's still up in the air .
Even among DVD audio owners there may be artists where the CD is enough for them . "




Strange Hazards of a News Site

WASHINGTON -- For most fledgling news websites , the biggest obstacles are mundane : Getting funding , recruiting reporters , then praying they will n't ditch you for a pre-IPO dot com .
Not so with Michael Tunick .
Instead of battling venture capitalists , the 41-year old publisher of eurasia.org.ru is fighting the Russian secret police .
Government agents stabbed one of his editors , forced an Internet service provider to block access to his website , and even created fake news sites to discredit the opposition party , Tunick claims .
Tunick , who was in New York to speak at the International Network 2000 conference organized by Rising Tide Studios and Silicon Alley Reporter , chatted with Wired News on Friday afternoon .
" It 's politics , " Tunick said . "
It 's a very dirty business .
Sometimes I do sort of think I should abandon politics and be more in business . "
For now , though , his news site , devoted to often-scarce central Asian news , reportedly attracts 2,000 visitors a day and includes active , unmoderated discussion forums .
It 's a non-commercial site , and the staff makes money from fee-based research assignments for corporations and embassies .
Tunick candidly describes himself as an activist-journalist , and some of his writers have close ties to the opposition party in Kazakhstan .
He said Igor Poberegsky , the content editor who was stabbed with " a sharp piece of metal -- almost an ice pick " -- during the daytime on a busy street in Moscow , had such connections .
According to a report in the Moscow Times last week , the Russian government has proposed that news sites must register with the government or face penalties .
---
Dilbert in D.C. ?
As if we needed more proof that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has gone slightly bonkers , along comes Scott Adams to make that point in a cartoon this week .
" My patent for no-click shopping was granted , " the cuddly-yet-demoniac Dogbert character tells Dilbert . "
You 'd better click something or I have to ship you some books . "
The comic strip is , of course , mocking the PTO 's new bad habit of awarding software patents even when they make little sense .




Car-Sharing Goes Online

A new concept in car use , called car-sharing , allows motorists to reserve cars on an hourly basis -- and the auto-rental outfits that offer these membership services are hoping the Internet will connect them with more urban dwellers who do n't own cars but occasionally need one for a short length of time .
The programs promise to help alleviate city congestion , parking hassles , and environmental abuse by giving current car owners a reason to give up their vehicles while still having use of a car when they need it .
As an alternative to owning a car , or paying by the day to rent one , these car-sharing programs have proven quite successful in Europe , and are mobilizing interest all over North America .
While not an option for those who commute to work every day or drive frequently , car-sharing does give city dwellers an alternative to ownership , and helps redefine their relationship with the automobile , said Christine Anderson , spokesperson for the Seattle car-share service Flexcar .
" We can n't meet the needs of everyone , " Anderson said . "
But rather than paying for a car to sit on the street for five days a week , we give them the freedom to dump it . "
The Web has played a big part in driving this idea by serving as an education platform to spur community interest , advertise , and allow car-sharers to join up and schedule their automobile usage .
Interested users and activists can log on to learn more about the car-sharing concept , see if their neighborhood has convenient access to an automobile in the fleet , or apply for membership .
Cambridge , Massachusetts-based Zipcar will launch June 23 with a fleet of 12 cars , and expects to serve an initial membership of 120 .
It will add 30 more cars by the end of the year and hopes to accommodate over 1,000 drivers .
Zipcar members will apply for membership , reserve a car with the company , and pay online .
To access the car , members will use smartcards to prove their identity and track their usage to tally the monthly bill .
" We 've invested our energy into making an online reservation system as seamless as using an ATM , " said Zipcar CEO Robin Chase .
At some locations , such as Switzerland 's Mobility , drivers can reserve their time slot and the car they want online .
Almost every site features data on car-sharing 's environmental benefits , but another , The Carsharing Network , features an entire library and discussion group on the topic .
The car-sharing idea , said to have begun in Switzerland in 1987 , now has over 30,000 members in that country .
Switzerland 's achievement inspired other efforts in Sweden , Germany , and throughout the Continent , with car-sharing serving 70,000 members in more than 350 European cities .




Worm Turns on Wireless

SAN FRANCISCO -- A new computer virus that has targeted mobile phone users in Spain -- calling them up to deliver an insulting email about a Spanish telephone company -- has dramatically demonstrated what could be the newest headache to afflict the wireless world .
Computer security specialists reported Tuesday the worm-type virus , called " Timofonica , " had hit customers of Spain 's Movistar service , sending text messages scrolling across the screens of their GSM mobile phones .
" This virus is not a big threat for the general public , " said Mikko Hypponen , manager of anti-virus research at Finland 's F-Secure Corp. , which along with Russia 's antivirus Kapersky Lab first noted the spread of the new bug .
" But the most important thing is it is wireless .
It is the first virus we have seen which targets cell phones , " Hypponen said in an telephone interview from Finland .
Security researchers said the virus was transmitted by email , did not destroy computer files and was more an annoyance than a real danger .
So far it appeared limited largely to Spain , they added .
The GSM , or Global System for Mobil Communications , wireless standard dominates in Europe , while the rival CDMA , or code division multiple access , standard is widely used in the United States .
By taking the same basic recipe that spread the notorious " I Love You " virus around the globe last month and applying it to cell phones , the Spanish bug could presage a new breed of viral attack against pocket communicators , palm organizers , and the rest of the wireless world .
The object of Timofonica 's wrath is Spain 's Telefonica telephone company , a telecommunications giant that is trying to become a global leader on the Internet , recently bidding , through its Terra Networks arm , to acquire search engine Lycos for US$ 12.5 billion .
parent company of Wired News
A hacker or hackers using Microsoft 's Outlook program , the same route taken in the " I Love You " virus and other outbreaks , spread the Timofonica via self-generated email to all of the addresses contained in victims ' electronic address books , Kapersky Lab said in a news release on the virus .
But in a new twist , Timofonica also took to the airwaves , sending a message to a Short Messaging Service gateway , a computer server that converted the message to telephone signal reaching thousands of random cell phone users .
SMS
Computer specialists stressed that the virus itself was not transmitted wirelessly -- only its insulting text message .
But a computer infection designed to afflict wireless products was seen as an unnerving new twist .
" I do n't think cell phones and Palm Pilots are more vulnerable today than they were yesterday before this hit .
All the worm did was send an email message .
It just happened to send it to a cell phone , " said Vincent Gullotto , director of AVERT Labs for Network Associates , another antivirus firm .
But he said that as wireless devices become more popular , more sophisticated , and more standardized , their vulnerability to destructive viruses was growing .
The attack Tuesday underscored this threat , experts said .
" We can n't say when specifically ... it could be a year , it could be six months , it could be two years , " Gullotto said . "
My guess is yes , at some particular point . "
it will happen
While the Spanish infection appeared to be running its course , Hypponen said other viruses could easily be designed to mimic the " denial-of-service " attacks that hit Yahoo , CNN , and a number of other major websites earlier this year .
At least one already has -- the so called 911 bug that hit a small number of 911 emergency operator systems in Texas and Florida in April as a simple " zombie " program targeted them with thousands of computer calls without any knowledge on the part of the computer 's owner .
" What if you did that to the cell phone of the prime minister ? "
Hypponen said . "
We have n't yet seen viruses to be used by terrorists , which obviously would be the next step . "




Commerce Dept. : We Like Tech

WASHINGTON -- Industries built on telecommunications and computers accounted for nearly a third of U.S. economic growth last year and have played a major role in boosting productivity and holding down inflation , the Commerce Department said on Monday .
In its third annual report on the Digital Economy , the department said the broad category of Information Technology -- which covers everything from computer hardware and cable lines to television broadcasting and the Internet -- has played a key role in driving the record U.S. expansion .
" Information technology and the Internet are having a deep and significant effect on the way the U.S. economy performs , " Undersecretary of Commerce Robert Shapiro told a news conference .
" The rapid rate of growth in the IT sector tells you that IT is selling across the U.S. economy , " he said . "
That is , more and more companies and more and more industries from both the old and new economies are investing in telecommunications and related gear . "
The report , called the " Digital Economy 2000 , " was compiled by the Economics and Statistics Administration , an arm of the Commerce Department that analyses data produced by its two main economic statistics agencies , the Census Bureau and the Bureau of Economic Analysis .
Despite IT 's increasing importance , it represented a fairly small share -- roughly 8 percent in 1999 -- of the economy 's total output .
But IT contributed 32 percent to overall economic growth , the study found .
During the period 1994-1998 , IT reduced overall U.S. inflation , as measured by the gross domestic product price index , by half a percentage point to 1.8 percent from 2.3 percent .
" The rates of decline in IT prices accelerated through the 1990s -- from about 1 percent in 1994 , to nearly 5 percent in 1995 , and an average of 8 percent for the years 1996 to 1998 , " the report said .
A key factor in that trend has been tumbling computer prices .
Commerce said IT industries have been an important source of productivity-enhancing research and development .
Between 1994 and 1999 , overall research and development investment rose by an inflation-adjusted average of around 6 percent .
More than a third of that occurred in IT .
For those in IT jobs , there were big financial rewards .
Occupations in IT-related jobs paid average wages of $ 58,000 a year -- more than double the $ 31,400 averaged for all private industries .
Right now , the government produces very few detailed statistics on such areas as Information Technology and the Internet , but Shapiro said Commerce is working to expand that .
The Digital Economy 2000 report examined broad trends in IT , but there is no breakdown of IT in more frequent and up-to-date reports like the gross domestic product , which Commerce estimates three times per quarter .
The government compiles data on a host of economic sectors but in an era of rapid technological change , it is struggling to keep pace with the newer areas of the economy .
Earlier this year , Commerce began issuing quarterly estimates of online retail sales .
Shapiro said the department expects to start a new series sometime this year on business-to-business electronic commerce .




Indie Bands Get Cable Showcase

Indie musicians looking to broaden their exposure have a new venue : a new , commercial-free cable television channel .
Connecticut-based Falcon Entertainment on Wednesday debuted the Independent Music Network , which features all original content .
IMNTV broadcasts original programming 24 hours a day , seven days a week , culled from indie band submissions .
Falcon also will webcast the videos on its site .
IMNTV gives independent artists the opportunity to be seen in up to 3 million households in five cable markets : Los Angeles , San Diego , Miami , Orlando , Florida , and Norfolk , Virginia .
James Fallacaro , president of Falcon Entertainment , said he also is negotiating with EchoStar Communications , a satellite cable system that would expand the network 's reach .
The company plans to operate both the website and cable channel commercial-free , relying on other ventures , including its Invision indie music label , for revenue .
" We are n't interested in the present time in taking advertisers because suddenly the show becomes their show , " Fallacaro said . "
If you look at any other network , website , or music label , you know there 's money to be made , so if the people like the network , we are going to do very well . "
Fallacaro said he is n't worried about cash .
Falcon Entertainment went public last year , raising about $ 9 million in cash , and he expects the record label to make enough money to justify the TV and Internet costs .
INDE
Analysts say that could be a risky proposition .
" You could try to leverage this kind of business model into a subscription service by using the video technologies to add value to someone else 's subscription service , " said Billy Pidgeon , an analyst at Jupiter Communications . "
But that depends on people 's willingness to purchase music on the Web . "
Pidgeon said content needs to be customized for the Internet . "
Offering the same content across various platforms is n't going to work .
You really need to repurpose that content to fit the medium you are using . "
Each month , viewers and the company 's artists ' advisory board will select the top 10 artists seen on the channel .
Those bands will then be given a 30-minute feature segment on the channel , and the top band will be offered a recording contract with Falcon 's development company .
Fallacaro said that unlike the other dot-com music shows , IMNTV will be an eclectic independent film and music network that considers any indie artist .
" We are n't out to hurt anybody or out to take advantage of anybody , " he said . "
We are just offering a band a contract , but we are n't requiring them to sign with us to be played on the air .
And we encourage all the bands to get management and lawyers to represent them . "
Other music programs have hit both the airwaves and the Internet in recent months .
The Universal Music-affiliated website farmclub.com has unveiled its television show of the same name on the USA Network .
However , its contract requiring independent bands to turn over their websites in order to get on the television show irked some musicians .
One band , the Rosenbergs , criticized the company and in a mass email campaign that distributed the contract .
Independent music website Riffage.com filmed 13 episodes of its new series , Riffage Live , which will also appear on the Burly Bear cable network .




IBM Banking on New ThinkPads

A new line of ThinkPad notebooks , both cheaper and lighter than their predecessors , went on the market Monday as IBM bids to recapture some of the PC market lost to its competitors .
The ThinkPad i Series starts at $ 1,200 and weighs in at six pounds .
All models include updated options for connecting to the Internet .
One is Ethernet technology , which provides high-speed access using either traditional phone lines or cable modems , as well as the ability to connect to corporate , home , or school networks .
There are also two USB ports and new keyboard-based audio controls to simplify listening to music .
IBM 's personal computer business has been struggling in recent years , losing money while it loses market share to rivals such as Compaq , Dell , and Gateway .
Some Wall Street analysts have questioned whether IBM should be selling computers at all .
The new line of ThinkPads is IBM 's way of saying that it should .
At least for now .
- - -
High wireless act : Charles Schwab , the leading online discount stock broker , has launched an online trading service accessible to clients using wireless devices .
Schwab will start the service using handheld digital organizers made by Palm .
" The anytime , anywhere nature of the wireless medium is a great fit for the real-time nature of trading and market activity , " said Bob Sofman , a senior Schwab veep .
Meaning you might literally be holding your life in the palm of your hand .
- - -
You buy it , we ship it : Webvan , which delivers groceries ordered online , took a look at what Kozmo.com was doing and said , " Hey , why not us ? "
So Webvan will extend its service to include consumer electronics , video games , and movies .
The company is opening what it calls " specialty shops " that will allow customers to order specific products and have them delivered within a 30-minute window of their choosing .
- - -
Brand new game : Online toy retailers have struggled lately , so Toys R Us ' announcement Monday that it will expand its online business had to come as heartening news .
The world 's largest specialty toymaker said it planned to open new offices in New Jersey and the San Francisco Bay Area by late summer .
Expansion will occur in several areas , including technical support and business development , the company said in a statement .
This comes on the heels of Walt Disney Co. 's decision to close Toysmart.com in late May after the company ran out of money and failed to raise new capital .
- - -
High hoops : America Online said Monday that it had concluded a cross-promotional alliance with the NBA and the Women 's National Basketball Association .
The multiyear deal is aimed at increasing traffic to the NBA.com and WNBA.com sites .
Both will be promoted on several AOL properties , while AOL receives " significant " airtime during NBA and WNBA broadcasts on TNT and other TBS cable stations .
AOL will also have the rights to use NBA logos and player names in connection with a basketball fantasy game that will be developed on its sites .
- - -
Briefly told : The FCC has approved AT&T 's $ 54 billion bid to buy MediaOne Group , a cable TV company .
...
Sega Enterprises , running third among video-game console makers , has signed a deal with Motorola to jointly develop cellular phones with Internet access .
...
Baltimore Technologies , an Irish security firm , has been chosen by Visa to provide e-commerce security for its members worldwide .
...
Efficient Networks , which makes equipment for high-speed Net connections , has terminated its planned acquisition of NetScreen Technologies .
Reuters contributed to this report .




New Hope for AIDS Gene Therapy

Gene therapy company GenStar last week announced findings that show preliminary success with treatments for both HIV and hemophilia .
The researchers presented their findings at the American Society of Gene Therapy Conference in Denver and said they hope to begin clinical trials soon .
" These promising results underscore our efforts to develop innovative gene therapy products engineered to provide enhanced activity and favorable safety profiles , " said Dr. Robert Sobol , chief executive officer of GenStar in San Diego .
Approximately 33 million people are infected with HIV worldwide .
HIV is the virus believed to cause AIDS .
Hemophilia is a hereditary disease characterized by a deficiency in a blood-clotting protein .
The disorder causes abnormal bleeding and affects about 20,000 people in the United States .
Researchers at GenStar studied the gene therapy technique by creating a genetically modified human immunodeficiency virus that is not able to replicate .
Instead of replicating and causing disease , the altered virus infects cells and induces immune responses , but stops at that .
GenStar recently acquired the HIV and other gene therapy technologies from Allegro Inc.
GenStar also presented data on a gene therapy product for hemophilia A , which showed that the therapy safely delivered a gene called human factor VIII into patients .
And they reported in a recent issue of the journal Blood that the product can correct bleeding abnormalities in mice and sustain therapeutic levels for about one year .
The data reported from GenStar 's hemophilia gene therapy product showed no significant toxicity when administered to animal subjects at dosages 10 times higher than those planned for future clinical evaluation .
Another gene therapy company , Cell Genesys in Foster City , California , reported success with a hemophilia treatment on Monday .
The company said it was able to deliver therapeutic levels of a blood-clotting protein in non-human primates with hemophilia B after one administration of gene therapy .
Investors liked what they heard .
Shares of GenStar rose 20 percent , or 15/16 , to 5-3/4 on the research news , while Cell Genesys was up 3-1/8 points to close at 24-1/2 on Monday .
GNT
CEGE




A Data Sanctuary Is Born

WASHINGTON -- A windswept gun tower anchored six miles off the stormy coast of England is about to become the first Internet data haven .
A group of American cypherpunks has transformed the rusting fortress , erected by the British military during World War II to shoot down Nazi aircraft , into a satellite-linked virtual home for anyone looking for a secure place to store sensitive or controversial data .
The founders of HavenCo , which will announce operations on Monday , believe the concept will appeal to individuals and businesses looking for a " safe haven " from governments around that world that are becoming more and more interested in Internet regulation and taxation .
It 's for " companies that want to have email servers in a location in which they can consider their email private and not open to scrutiny by anyone capable of filing a lawsuit , " says Sean Hastings , the 32-year-old chief executive of HavenCo .
Hastings says that because a 1968 British court decision effectively recognized the basketball court-sized island as a sovereign nation called Sealand , HavenCo can provide more privacy and legal protections then anyone else on the planet .
To create HavenCo -- which will offer Linux servers for $ 1,500 a month -- the founders signed an agreement with Roy Bates , the quirky " crown prince " of Sealand who landed on the abandoned platform in 1966 and claimed it as an independent nation with its own currency , stamps , and flag .
Bates , a former British Army major , has undertaken a string of failed business ventures in an attempt to make use of the world 's tiniest country -- a platform just 10 by 25 yards that perches atop two cement caissons in the North Sea .
One plan was to build Sealand into a three-mile-long , man-made island with an airport and banks .
Another venture included working with German investors to build a $ 70 million hotel and gambling complex -- a scheme that fell apart with the Germans taking over the fortress in 1978 and Bates regaining control in a dramatic helicopter raid at dawn .
This time the elder Bates , now about 80 years old , is taking no chances on his business partners : His son and royal heir-apparent , Michael , is HavenCo 's chief logistics officer and the royal family has a seat on the board .
But today Sealand 's potential adversaries include not merely a few expansion-minded Germans , but nervous government officials who are aggressively trying to pull the plug on unapproved offshore activities .
During a Paris summit in May , for instance , representatives of the Group of Eight nations met to hammer out an agreement on international Net law . "
G8
The idea is to produce a global text so there can not be ' digital havens ' or ' Internet havens ' where anyone planning some shady business could find the facilities to do it , " French Interior Minister Jean-Pierre Chevenement said at the time .
When Sealand was simply an eccentric 's hobby , the British government largely ignored the smallest country in the world .
But if HavenCo becomes a popular destination for gambling , money laundering , or other socially disapproved activities , governments could move against it .
The Home Office in London could restrict the microwave links that provide HavenCo with its lifeline to the outside world , and the companies offering satellite connectivity could come under pressure from regulators in their home countries .
HavenCo could even find its bank accounts imperiled .
For their part , HavenCo executives say they hope to avoid negative publicity . "
We do n't intend to make anyone angry at us .
We simply want to provide online businesses a place with a sane set of rules that are not constantly changing , " Hastings said .
" If larger nations have a problem with unrestricted information flow , then their problem is with the increase in information technology , and not with us .
They can n't put the genie back in the bottle until every individual on the planet has had their three wishes come true , " he said .
Somewhat ironically , bandits recently set up a fake " Principality of Sealand " website to sell citizenship to unsuspecting visitors .
Spanish authorities reportedly are investigating a gang involved with drug smuggling and arms trafficking using those passports .
In a bizarre incident , one " Sealand " passport of dubious origin surfaced in connection with the July 1997 murder of fashion designer Gianni Versace in Miami .
The British Embassy in Washington declined to comment on what would prompt London to take action against the legitimate prince of Sealand . "
What it comes down to is that this is a hypothetical , and so we can not speculate on this , " said Peter Reed , the embassy 's press officer .
situation




MP3 Site Sues RIAA Over Linking

The recording industry got a bit of a shock on Monday when a digital music search site filed a lawsuit asking the judge to stop the Recording Industry Association of America from attempting to shut its website down .
Since last October , the RIAA has sent numerous cease-and-desist letters to MP3Board.com -- a website that provides hyperlinks to MP3 music files available for download over the Internet -- requesting that the site voluntarily shut down or face legal action .
On May 25 , RIAA sent a letter stating that legal action would be taken if the digital music company did n't shut down its website by June 2 .
MP3Board filed a preemptive lawsuit on June 2 in federal district court in San Jose , California , asking a federal judge not only to end the RIAA 's attempts to shut its service down , but also to rule on whether providing hyperlinks constitutes copyright infringement .
" We 're mindful of the notion that there are infringing files out there , but there are non-infringing ones as well , " said Internet litigation lawyer Ira Rothken , who represents MP3Board . "
The RIAA should go after the sites that are actually doing the infringing , not a site like ours .
This is a pattern of abuse by the RIAA against my client . "
Rothken is requesting that the judge clarify the requirements of how MP3Board should monitor its site for illegal content , grant an injunction to block the RIAA 's attempts to shut down the company , and award the company monetary damages for the recording industry 's interference in its business .
" would mean every search engine would have to go through the RIAA 's database before they could do a search , " Rothken said . "
Preventing sites from linking to illegal MP3 content
That would paralyze the Internet , " he said . "
So someone has to step in to say that linking services can n't be infringing on copyright just for hyperlinking . "
A ruling against linking could pose a problem for other MP3 search or browse sites like listen.com , gigabeat.com , myplay.com that aggregate downloadable music available on the Web .
But listen.com managing editor Tim Quirk does n't think aggregation companies are in any danger .
Unlike other music search sites , listen.com uses editors instead of automation to create its links .




Search the Web -- And Users ' PCs

If you listen to Manish Vij , CEO of newly launched Pointera , Web searching needs a good push into the Napster age .
" We 're taking Napster-style file-sharing , we 're broadening it to all documents , and we 're allowing Portals to play , " Vij said . "
So when you 're searching Yahoo , if you type in ' Britney Spears , ' you 'll get not just text documents , but also links to documents on people 's hard disk . "
The company launched Monday and calls itself an application service provider for portals .
It hopes to license its " sharing engine " to portals and search sites like Yahoo and AltaVista -- much the way search company Inktomi licenses its technology to portals including Yahoo , AOL , and MSN .
Vij said he hopes to convince Web portals to append their search results to include personal files residing on users ' own computers -- just like the file-swapping model of controversial music-trading software Napster and its cousin Gnutella .
The Pointera technology would allow users to find , download , and share all types of files -- songs , movies , Web pages , or word-processing documents -- running as a Java applet in any standard Web browser software .
" From the user 's perspective , it 's just Yahoo -- you 're searching all file types and your results look like they 're coming from the Web browser .
So it 's pretty much indistinguishable for any normal user from a search engine . "
The company has yet to name partners but said it is in talks with one of the three major portals .
To Vij , the Napster age brings a major shift in the meaning of an Internet search , allowing major portals and content sites to participate in what he refers to as the " legitimate file-sharing revolution , " in which " Yahoo enters the Napster space legitimately . "
" Legitimately " because right now Napster is being sued for its role in facilitating the easy swapping of copyrighted media .
But by taking the search engine route , Vij said Pointera would have legal protection from the get-go .
Built-in copyright enforcement features would enable search sites to safeguard the rights of copyright holders , the company says .
And Vij said the Millennium Copyright Act provides exemption from copyright liability for search engines .
But Danny Sullivan , editor of Search Engine Watch , is n't so sure the Web search needs a Napster-like appendage .
" Using that kind of Napster technology be great for different kinds of uses , but I do n't see it as a replacement for search engines themselves , " Sullivan said . "
can
It 's really going to depend on what it is you 're looking for . "
Many other file types are best served by existing search services , he said . "
If you 're trying to seek out , say , images on the Web -- and images are simply files -- you 're probably going to be better off using an image search engine like AltaVista ... because those images -- nobody 's trying to put them up or take them down in a hurry . "




HavenCo : Come to Data

WASHINGTON -- For the intrepid crew of cypherpunks who are erecting a data haven off the stormy coast of England , making sure the technology works will be the easy part .
A more serious threat is likely to be governments alarmed by HavenCo 's offer to host individual and corporate sites that are illegal in some parts of the world .
Some countries consider gambling or sexually explicit websites to be illegal .
There 's also broad international agreement that money laundering " havens " should be put out of business .
According to HavenCo officials and the company 's terms of service , everything but spamming , obscenity , and child pornography is legal .
The company plans to begin operations by September .
Could nations act against HavenCo , a startup company perched on a tiny manmade island called Sealand with uncertain legal independence from Britain ?
" It depends largely on who this entity 's backers are .
Are they well connected ? " says James Feinerman , a professor of international law at Georgetown University .
" I suspect we could blow them out of the water , although I would n't recommend that , and if they were in fact propagating illegal material I bet nobody would really care .
There would be few consequences if nobody is interested , " Feinerman says .
London 's Home Office could restrict the microwave links that provide HavenCo with its lifeline to the outside world , and the companies offering satellite connectivity could come under pressure from regulators in their home countries .
HavenCo could even find its bank accounts imperiled .
In 1996 , a U.S. government agency pulled the plug on Iran 's Internet connection , which was routed through Austria 's Vienna University .
Direct action also has precedents .
In October 1983 , the U.S. invaded Grenada and installed a pro-American government .
Commandos working for the French government blew up Greenpeace 's Rainbow Warrior in 1985 when it was anchored in Auckland , New Zealand .
In 1995 , the French military seized five Greenpeace ships that were protesting nuclear testing in the south Pacific and arrested the crew .
" If the U.S. administration objected strongly , and was suitably motivated , it might simply undertake a covert military action .
There is historical precedent for such actions .
I doubt this would ever happen , " says Peter Rosti , webmaster for the John Galt Society , which advocates offshore banking and tax avoidance .




Gene Now Out of the Bottle

SASKATOON , Saskatchewan -- A Canadian farmer went toe to toe with agribusiness giant Monsanto Co. in court Monday as arguments started in a case that questions the environmental safety of growing genetically modified organisms .
Monsanto Canada Inc. , is seeking damages from Percy Schmeiser , a 68-year-old farmer from the province of Saskatchewan .
It accuses him of illegally growing Monsanto 's genetically modified Roundup Ready canola seeds in his fields in 1998 .
The case could set precedents because the use of genetic modification -- altering plant genes to resist pests or herbicides , for example -- is relatively new and the legal ramifications have yet to be tested to any great degree in the courts .
" I believe there are some real principles involved and that 's why I am taking them on , " Schmeiser told reporters in Saskatoon , in the heart of Canada 's prairie grain-growing region .
In rendering a decision in the trial , which is set to last three weeks , the Federal Court of Canada will consider whether to order Schmeiser to pay Monsanto Canada Inc. damages for growing its canola seeds in 1998 .
Canola is a Canadian variant of rapeseed .
Schmeiser has questioned Monsanto 's right to patent genes and has said the GM canola arrived on his fields by accident , likely blown by the wind from nearby farms where the Monsanto seed was being grown .
" It is just too much , far too much to happen by anything else than a deliberate plant , " Monsanto 's lawyer , Robert Hughes , told the court , presided over by Justice Andrew Mackay .
In his opening arguments on Monday , Hughes said 90 percent of Schmeiser 's 1998 crop was composed of Roundup Ready canola -- a herbicide-resistant version of the plant altered to work exclusively with Monsanto 's Roundup weedkiller .
Schmeiser said in court documents that the samples should be ruled inadmissible because the company illegally obtained them from his land after he was reported by neighbors on a Monsanto " snitch line . "
The case is expected to be closely watched by those who support GM technology and those who abhor it , particularly Europeans , as being untested and unsafe .
Another issue taken up by environmental and consumer groups is that GM crops can contaminate non-GM crops as the seeds get blown from field to field .
" It is our position that this gene is like a genie out of a bottle .
It was never attempted to be controlled and was not controlled , " said Terry Lakreski , Schmeiser 's lawyer .
" Mr. Schmeiser did not deliberately plant Roundup-resistant canola on his land , " the lawyer said , disputing Monsanto 's contention that it had patented a plant and not a gene .
The majority of Canada 's canola crop is genetically modified , and Monsanto said 55 percent is Roundup Ready .
Schmeiser , who sat alone in court listening intently to the proceedings , indicated to reporters that a countersuit against Monsanto may be launched once this case is over .




Video Clothes : ' Brand ' New Idea

SAN FRANCISCO -- An inventor has created a wearable computer that he hopes will turn people into mobile billboards playing TV ads , movie trailers , and music videos .
Stephan Fitch , a graduate of the MIT Media Lab , which is well known for its research into wearable computers , has sewn a diminutive but fully functional Windows computer into the lining of a leather jacket .
But instead of putting the display on the jacket 's sleeve or a head-mounted eyepiece , Fitch put the machine 's 6-inch LCD screen on the back of the jacket , which allows everyone but its wearer to see what 's going on .
" Instead of having a Puffy Combs patch on the back of your jacket , you could play a Puffy Combs video , " Fitch said as he showed off the jacket in a hotel suite here last week . "
It allows people to use video as a form of self-expression . "
" It is a very thought-provoking product " said Jop Van Beurden , VP of marketing for flat display systems at Philips .
Van Beurden said his company is working on flexible display technology , which will " open up a whole new realm of applications , " such as handheld computers that can be folded like wallets , and large screens that can be rolled up like newspapers .
But Van Beurden said flexible displays probably will n't be built into clothes for three to five years .
Fitch 's jacket was commissioned and built to order for MSN , which debuted it at last month 's ad-tech interactive advertising conference , where it was used to play Microsoft ads as the wearer strolled the show floor .
" It got a fantastic response , " Fitch said . "
A flock of people were following him around . "
The jacket will be on display at this week 's Web Attack show in New York .
The jacket is a fully featured Windows computer with a 233-MHz Pentium II processor , a 1 Gigabyte IBM micro hard drive and a broadband wireless Internet connection .




McNealy Sees Java Beyond PCs

SAN FRANCISCO -- True to form , Sun 's CEO Scott McNealy kicked off the annual JavaOne developers conference Tuesday with a string of anti-Microsoft jokes and guest appearances by Apple 's Steve Jobs and basketball great Magic Johnson .
At the fifth JavaOne conference here , McNealy 's opening keynote poked fun at archrival Microsoft while highlighting new Java gadgets , including cell phones , games consoles and even a golf club .
McNealy started his hour-long Java pep talk with his signature Top 10 list of Microsoft barbs .
This year , McNealy delivered the Department of Justice 's Top 10 slogans for Microsoft Outlook , the email program targeted in the recent Melissa and Love Bug virus attacks .
While some fell flat , McNealy got a big laugh with a play on AOL 's " You 've got mail " catchphrase : " You got nailed . "
McNealy addressed a capacity crowd packed into the Moscone Center 's giant main auditorium .
The show this year attracted a record 25,000 developers from 100 countries , organizers said .
McNealy remarked on how big a show JavaOne has turned into , noting that the programming language was quietly introduced five years ago , almost as an afterthought during the launch of another product .
" We had no idea how big it was going to be , " McNealy said . "
It 's pretty amazing what 's happened in just five years . "
McNealy went on to discuss the reasons Java has grown -- listing its security , scalability and network performance -- before bringing Apple CEO Steve Jobs onto the stage .
Rising to big applause from the crowd and grinning from ear to ear , Jobs acknowledged that the Mac has n't been the best Java machine around , but promised that the forthcoming Mac OS X -- the long-awaited update to the Mac operating system -- would be the " best Java delivery platform on the planet , " drawing wild applause from the crowd .
Jobs himself introduced the head of software at Apple , Avi Tevanian , to demonstrate some new experimental software and burst out laughing when the program crashed .
While Java is known for running big business systems , McNealy said it will increasingly show up on smaller devices like handhelds , cell phones , and set-top boxes .
McNealy invited onto the stage Sega 's Shoichiro Irimajiri , who showed a Java browser running on the new Dreamcast games console that will enable games to be networked over the Internet as well as provide general Web access .
Irimajiri also held up a new Motorola cell phone that uses Java to play 10 Sega-authored games .
" This year , all over the world people can enjoy Sonic on their cell phone , " he said , referring to Sega 's smash-hit game , Sonic the Hedgehog .
McNealy also demonstrated a Java golf club that allows CEOs stuck in their offices to play golf against each other using the Internet .
McNealy used the club to hit a ping-pong ball into the crowd and replayed the stroke on a computer monitor .
which the catcher could later redeem for a T-shirt
Towards the end of the keynote , Magic Johnson came on stage to plug a Java programming competition organized by American Express , before throwing autographed basketballs into the crowd .
" It 's a chance to get together with Sun and American Express , " Johnson said . "
And you can n't do no wrong by doing that . "




Kiwis Lift Lid on #*!@& !
Domains

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- A ban on seven words deemed too offensive to register as part of a domain name in this country has just been lifted .
The crude swear words have been banned for years .
The list , some old Internet hands thought , was originally linked to words banned by broadcasters .
However , the Internet Society of New Zealand has decided it is time for the policy to change .
Society Chair Peter Dengate Thrush said the policy was " was too narrow in terms of preventing obscenity . "
Many other combinations of words could be combined to create offensive domain names , he said .
Also , the offensive word list was limited to English-language swear words , meaning words offensive in other languages and cultures could slip through , Dengate Thrush said .
The censorship role did n't fit with the society 's purpose , which its website states is " to foster coordinated and cooperative development of the Internet . "
" It should not be us making these decisions , " Dengate Thrush said .
So at a meeting last week , the society decided to allow the banned words to be registered as domain names beginning June 1 .
Domainz , the body which handles the registrations of New Zealand domain names and is owned by the country 's Internet society , can now automatically register most local domain names .
The banned words had necessitated a manual check .
Now only names which use . govt , .mil , . cri and . iwi require checking .
New Zealand government research institutes
for Mori groups
A public call for comment before the change brought little response , but since the decision a lively discussion has flared on the local society newsgroup .
" Why is it not considered necessary to protect our children ? " one woman asked in a post to the newsgroup . "
Most sensible nations have strong laws to protect children against public obscenity , and this in no way impinges on the issue of free speech , which is a religion there , and a good thing too . "
I 'm talking about the U.S. here
Others argued that deciding what is obscene should n't fall on the Internet society 's shoulders . "
The issue of obscene domains is quite similar to that of trademarks .
Anyone should be free to register whatever they like .
If someone else subsequently has a problem with the registration , they can then make complaints via appropriate channels , " a user named Oliver argued in another post .
In New Zealand , the Department of Internal Affairs , the police , and customs are all involved in enforcing the Classification Act , the local censorship law .
So far only four of the seven previously banned words have been registered .
One registrant says he did n't register the name and that he is canceling the registration .
.
A website using this particular domain name reportedly briefly redirected traffic to the website of Telecom New Zealand
Another registrant registered one of the names " purely because of a joke , " according to his brother .
But a third registrant , who registered two of the seven names , views his purchases as an investment . "
I 'm pretty pleased with the ' f ' and ' s , ' I must say , " Ross Hendy said , " as a collectible . "
Already he has listed one name on a domain-name auction site .
For now , he 's hanging on to the other .
In the future , he says , the hitherto obscene word " may be more acceptable . "




MP3.com , RIAA Close to a Deal

NEW YORK -- The five largest record labels are close to asettlement of a copyright infringement suit with MP3.com that would allow the online music site to include the labels ' songs as part of its controversial MyMP3.com service , according to a record label source .
The proposed settlement calls for San Diego-based MP3.com to pay $ 75 million to $ 100 million to the Recording Industry Association of America , the trade group representing the labels , in exchange for the right to include the labels ' songs .
RIAA
The service allows users to store music digitally and then access it using any computer .
" There are ongoing discussions among the affected parties , " an RIAA spokeswoman said , declining further comment .
MP3.com was not immediately available for comment .
" We are close to a done deal , " a label executive said . "
There are some small issues to be settled .
But it looks like MP3.com will pay between $ 75 million and $ 100 million to be distributed among the labels by the RIAA . "
A U.S. District Court judge in Manhattan ruled on April 28 that MP3.com infringed on copyrights held by the major labels by creating a database of more than 80,000 albums .
MP3.com designed software that lets computer users with an original copy of one of the recording in the database register that CD .
It then allows the user to listen to that album over the Internet from any computer , without having to insert the original disc .




Judge Dumps on MS Again

SEATTLE -- The judge trying the Microsoft antitrust case dealt another blow to the software giant 's legal strategy Tuesday , refusing to rule quickly on a company request that he stay his order for restrictions on how it does business .
In a terse statement , Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson said he would delay his ruling until Microsoft filed a formal notice of appeal .
Jackson agreed with a filing made on Monday by the U.S. Justice Department asking him to postpone a ruling in hopes of prodding the company to move the case along faster .
" The court reserves ruling on Microsoft 's motion until such time as timely notice of appeal is filed , " Jackson wrote . "
Consideration of a stay pending appeal is premature in that no notice of appeal has yet been filed . "
In its own filing on Tuesday , Microsoft asked the judge to rule immediately on its motion for a stay , saying the request was in line with court procedure and that the government 's request was unjustified .
Jackson ruled last week that Microsoft should be broken in two to prevent further antitrust violations .
Although he said a breakup should be delayed until the end of the appeals process , he also ordered a set of restrictions on how the company does business , to take effect 90 days from the ruling .
Those restrictions include forcing Microsoft to reveal to competitors more of the carefully guarded source code of its Windows operating system , restricting its ability to strike exclusive deals with partners , and requiring it to set uniform pricing for Windows among its different customers .
Microsoft , which has seen the judge rule against it at almost every turn in the case , said it was eager to move the case along quickly even though it expected Jackson would eventually deny its request for a stay .
" We expected a swift decision likely to reject our motion to stay so we could move ahead with appeals process , " Microsoft spokesman Jim Cullinan said . "
the
We are following the appropriate process to seek a stay and hope to move this along as quickly as possible . "
Justice , saying Microsoft was trying to drag the case out even longer , hopes Jackson 's decision to hold back a ruling on the stay will spur the company into filing its appeal sooner .
Many observers and analysts agree that Microsoft is hoping to stretch out the appeals process , perhaps thinking that the industry will change so drastically in the meantime as to render the original decision irrelevant .
" It does appear that that 's part of their strategy , and it does appear that that strategy is not working , " said Rob Enderle , an analyst with technology consulting firm Giga Information Group .
Justice is trying to move the case on a fast-track to the U.S. Supreme Court , bypassing a lower appeals court that has ruled in Microsoft 's favor in the past .
Microsoft has said it prefers the normal appeals route and opposes going directly to the Supreme Court .
" The bad news is that most of the rest of this does appear to be negative until the case moves to the Supreme Court , " Enderle said . "
The judge feels very strongly that the Supreme Court will hear this case and that they will ... put this thing to bed fairly rapidly . "
Shares in Microsoft were slightly lower , down 1/4 at 66-5/8 in afternoon trade on the Nasdaq stock market .




The Ruling : Break MS in Two

WASHINGTON -- In a historic ruling that could reshape the software industry , a federal judge has begun the lengthy process of splitting Microsoft into two competing companies .
U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson released his order on Wednesday , chiding Microsoft for " untrustworthy " behavior in court and approving without alteration the Justice Department 's sweeping divestiture of the world 's largest software company .
Jackson said he " reluctantly " came to the conclusion that a breakup was necessary .
" Microsoft as it is presently organized and led is unwilling to accept the notion that it broke the law or accede to an order amending its conduct , " he wrote .
Microsoft immediately said it would appeal the ruling and , as a procedural matter , would ask Jackson to delay his order .
" This is the beginning of a new chapter in this lawsuit , " said Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates . "
We have a very strong case on appeal , and we look forward to resolving these issues through the appeals process and putting this case behind us once and for all . "
Jackson 's order is written in biting language rarely seen in a U.S. district court .
In no uncertain terms , he condemned Microsoft as a recidivist monopolist and said its attorneys ' request for more time to prepare a response to a breakup plan was disingenuous .
" Microsoft 's profession of surprise is not credible .
From the inception of this case Microsoft knew , from well-established Supreme Court precedents dating from the beginning of the last century , that a mandated divestiture was a possibility , if not a probability , in the event of an adverse result at trial , " Jackson said .
As punishment for stifling competition in the computer industry , Jackson signed the breakup plan that the Justice Department and the states proposed this spring , without changing one word of the proposal .
The plan splits Microsoft into two firms : One sells the Windows operating system products , and the other will have rights to the software application programs along with the company 's far-flung Internet operations .
Microsoft will have four months to submit to Jackson an outline of how it will accomplish such a complicated proposal .
While the appeal of the breakup order is underway , Microsoft will have to abide by a host of far-reaching restrictions on what it may or may not do .
The company has said it will appeal the conduct restrictions as well , but they will be in place until at least one appeals court overturns them .
Microsoft 's appeal could bypass the normal appeals court process and go straight to the Supreme Court under a mechanism available in major antitrust cases .
But several legal experts said they believed the high court would decline to receive the case on an expedited basis .
In addition to arguing it has not violated the law , Microsoft will also argue that Jackson did not provide adequate time to prepare .
" We believe the proceedings in the district court were flawed from the beginning , and strayed further and further off course , both procedurally and substantively , as the case progressed , " Microsoft Vice President William Neukom said in a statement .
Prospects of a breakup aside , however , Wednesday 's widely anticipated round of bad news did n't do much damage to Microsoft 's recently battered stock .
Shares rose 88 cents to $ 70.50 on the Nasdaq .
After-hours trading in the stock was temporarily halted following the release of the ruling .




Dreamcast Gets Java Jolt

SAN FRANCISCO -- Sega.com and PlanetWeb , a developer of Internet software products and services for consumer electronics devices , have teamed up to provide Java support for the Web browser that comes with the Sega Dreamcast console .
The Web browser currently shipping in the Dreamcast , which came out last November , has no support for Java applications .
While the browser included JavaScript , it did not support the ability to have multiple windows open .
The lack of Java support is not a problem for most Web surfers , unless they are trying to access Java-based features such as chat rooms or Web-based email .
In those cases , users were either out of luck or had to go through a number of difficult and less-powerful HTML-driven steps to access those features .
For Sega , Java support comes by using PersonalJava , the small-footprint version of Java for handheld and consumer devices .
The PlanetWeb browser for Dreamcast will also allow for secure transactions using Secure Sockets Layer encryption .
SSL
" We want the browser to be everything a consumer would want in a regular browser , " said Aimee Cardwell , vice president of Sega.com .
The new browser will support Macromedia Flash animation and MP3 playback as well .
The company said the upgraded browser will ship with Dreamcast consoles beginning in August .
The September issue of Dreamcast Magazine , will come with a CD featuring the enhanced browser .
Sega officials said they expect vendors to use Java in their games coming out next year , allowing for more seamless connectivity on the Internet .
For example , with one click people could upload their top score on a game to a website where a contest is being held for players of that game .
But the main interest is in encouraging development of Java-based games that people can play online .
" We think this browser will help bring in a community of Java games to Sega.com , perhaps from developers who have not written for Sega before , " said Gordon Short , vice president of marketing and business development for PlanetWeb . "
This could bring in new developers and possibly increase the scope of developers writing games for the Dreamcast . "
To that end , Sega and PlanetWeb are sponsoring a contest for developers to create and submit Java-based games , to be hosted on Sega.com .
The grand prize is an original Sega arcade game machine .
Runners-up get a Dreamcast and five games .
Submissions must be received by September 30 .




The World Wide Washing Machine

LONDON -- Washing machines will soon be surfing the Internet and electronic paper will start making telephone calls , technology guru Nicholas Negroponte told the International Advertising Association on Wednesday .
IAA
In a future-gazing keynote speech to the IAA 's World Congress , Negroponte , who is director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Lab , said that in the next three years machines , rather than people , will be the heaviest users of the Web .
MIT
" I 'm not talking about WAP phones or PCs but machines that will download their intelligence from the Net , " he said .
He cited the Italian white goods manufacturer Merloni which has developed a washing machine with an internal cellphone that communicates with the company .
It will scan the washing instructions of clothes and contact the Internet to find out the right soap to use and the correct temperature for the water .
It will also be able to download upgraded software from the Web .
" Advertisers will have to advertise Tide to the machine , not to the housewife , " he said .
He said that toys will also increasingly communicate with the Internet .
" I believe that the highest level of semiconductor content in the home will be in toys , not PCs or TVs , " he said .
" In time , kids will learn French from Barbie dolls -- the French program will n't be in the Barbie doll but downloaded from the Net . "
He also said that MIT is working to produce paper that can be impregnated with the circuits needed to run a mobile phone .
" You could wave it around to activate it and then crumple it up and throw it away , " he said .
Negroponte also predicted that consumers in the developing world will be the most sophisticated users of the Internet in the next three years .
" It 's going to be a really big surprise .
The developing world will be way ahead and that is because culture is a stronger force than infrastructure , " he said .
He said that forecasters who predict that the United States will account for 50 percent of world e-commerce by 2003 are wrong .
" Latin America will be huge and that is because it has a very young population , cash-based underground economies , and a healthy disrespect for authority , " he said .
In Mexico there are currently 300,000 Internet accounts but behind every account holder there are six people who share the account .
He added that Latin America will make enormous progress because it is investing heavily in education .
" In Europe , education ministers are generally satisfied with standards of education but in Latin America they are desperate and so are prepared to try much bolder things , " he said .
He added that the use of computers in primary schools is more advanced in Costa Rica than anywhere in Europe .
However , he added that if companies are to sell products to consumers in the developing world then new payment systems will be crucial .
" Debit and credit cards are n't prevalent in these countries so we are going to have to create new forms of payment . "
Increasing use of the Internet around the world will also mean that consumers will become ever more powerful .
" It puts the consumer in absolute control , " he said .
" Retailers will become indoor advertising for products .
Consumers will browse , take down the serial number and then order it over the Net because it will be cheaper and they will n't have to carry it home themselves . "




NSI 's Webjacking Epidemic

Alan Meckler runs a $ 500 million public Net media company whose value rests in good part on its eponymous Web address -- Internet.com .
Thirteen-hundred other domains help flesh out Meckler 's media empire , which delivers news and information to seasoned Web vets .
Last weekend , a thief armed with nothing more than a fax machine and a piece of paper made off with the whole enterprise .
" It appears some forged documents were sent via fax to Network Solutions indicating that the domains should be transferred to someone in Canada , " Meckler said .
Much to Meckler 's chagrin , Network Solutions promptly made the transfer . "
There was no double-checking on the part of Network Solutions , " he said . "
What kind of business would fax in a letter saying , ' Just turn over these 1,300 domains ?
' "
After several days of wrangling with Network Solutions and Open SRS -- the Canadian registrar to which the stolen domains were transferred -- Meckler has his domains back , but not his confidence in Network Solutions .
" It 's resolved until it happens again to us or someone else , " he said . "
There 's no safeguard .
" Who would think that property you 've paid for , you 'd have to double-check ? "
Meckler asked . "
There 's a definite flaw in the system . "
Not to worry , says Network Solutions : It 's a flaw that 's being fixed .
" We 're taking steps to ensure that this type of thing does n't happen again , " said Network Solutions spokesman Brian O'Shaughnessy .
O'Shaughnessy said he could n't specify what steps were being taken without comprising their effectiveness in preventing further domain heists .
Net entrepreneur Gary Kremen might be forgiven for failing to take much comfort in the registrar 's assurances .
A domain he owned , Sex.com , was allegedly stolen by an ex-felon who , just like the Internet.com booster , forged a phony transfer document to Network Solutions more than four years ago .
" It 's outrageous , " Kremen said of the Internet.com heist . "
It 's exactly what happened to me .
This is the exact thing !
Can you imagine ? "
Unlike Meckler , Kremen never got the Sex.com domain back , though he hopes to recover it following a pending lawsuit .
Meanwhile , Web Networks , a nonprofit ISP that hosts websites for other nonprofits , is still assessing the damage after losing its domain , Web.net , to a thief last week .
In the Web.net heist , the thief forged an email to Network Solutions authorizing the transfer to Open SRS .
Web.net executive director Tonya Hancherow spent a week battling Network Solutions reps before she regained control of the site .
In the interim , more than 3,500 of her customers went without email and other Net services .




Venter : Protect Our Genes Now

WASHINGTON -- It will be impossible to keep details of people 's genes secret in the future , so Congress should pass laws to make sure such information is not abused , Craig Venter , founder of gene-mapping company Celera Genomics , said on Wednesday .
" I argue that it is virtually impossible to achieve full medical privacy , " Venter , whose company is working furiously to map and identify all the genes in the human genome , told a " high-tech summit " held by the Joint Economic Committee of the House of Representatives and Senate .
" Accepting this fact highlights our need for legislation prohibiting discrimination on the basis of genetic information .
It is essential if the biotechnology revolution is to be realized . "
Scientists who are mapping the human genome hope they will eventually be able to identify the genes that make people susceptible to diseases ranging from cancer to Alzheimer 's .
They also hope to be able to identify who responds well to which drugs , so that medicine can be tailored to individuals .
Already many genes associated with disease have been identified , including many cancer genes , a gene for Huntington 's , which is an inherited and incurable brain illness , and genes associated with haemophilia .
People have already expressed worries about being tested for such genes , saying they fear being denied health insurance and losing jobs if it became known they were at risk of disease .
In February , President Bill Clinton signed an executive order prohibiting the government from using genetic information in hiring or promotion decisions .
And Congress is working on this , in the form of the Genetic Nondiscrimination in Health Insurance and Employment Act of 1999 .
The legislation , introduced by Senate minority leader Tom Daschle , a South Dakota Democrat , and New York Democratic Representative Louise Slaughter , would extend federal genetic employment protections to the private sector .
" The biggest concern is genetic discrimination , " Venter said .
" Because we differ subtly from one another , some people want to over-interpret this in terms of genetic determinism -- that you are what you are because of your genetic code , " he added . "
It does n't quite work like that . "
Venter stressed that environment is at least as important as genetics .
He pointed out if one identical twin has schizophrenia , a disease with a genetic component , the other twin has only a 50 percent chance of developing the illness , even though the two have exactly the same genes .
Venter said everybody has one gene or another that could give insurance companies an excuse not to provide cover . "
Every one of us is uninsurable , " he said .
He said people should not want their genetic make-up to remain secret , because there are benefits to knowing about it .
" Each one of us , when our genetic code is determined , and if I have my way every one of us will have our genetic code determined within the next 10 to 15 years , will be able to do tailored and preventive medicine , " he said .
Referring to the prostate-specific antigen test used to find a protein over-produced by prostate cancer cells , Venter said : " Hopefully , from this we will have a new blood test for cancer like the PSA test . "
Another fear is that people who wish to discriminate against various ethnic groups might try and use genetics as a weapon . "
We do n't want the genetic code to be used ... by people trying to justify their previous biases , " Venter said .




When a Dot Com Goes Bust

NEW YORK -- Internet casualties are beginning to pile up from the shakeout in e-commerce , and financial experts are finding that it is easier to liquidate a factory than a Web page .
" You do n't have assets in the traditional sense , " said Lawrence Hamermesh , a corporate law professor at Widener University Law School in Delaware . "
You get a hodgepodge of goodwill , intangible rights , intellectual property .
...
The only way to place a value on that is to ... estimate what it will bring in the future .
In the dot-com world , that is crystal-balling that amounts to speculation of the highest order . "
Hamermesh said that what happens depends entirely on whether somebody thinks the idea is worth salvaging and is willing to buy it .
There were two buyers waiting to snap up some of the assets of the trendy British fashion retailer Boo.com after it ran through $ 135 million in investors ' money , closed up shop , and hired KPMG to liquidate .
Within days the technology sold for a bargain $ 368,800 to the British information technology firm Bright Station , and the website went for an undisclosed amount to the U.S. fashion portal , fashionmall.com .
But the education toy retailer Toysmart is still looking for a buyer and 170 employees are still looking for work since majority owner Walt Disney Co. cut off funds last month .
" It 's all going to be played out over the next several months , " said Stephen Miller , a partner the Ozer Group , a Massachusetts dot-com salvage firm .
His statement echoes a recent Barron 's study of 207 Internet companies that predicts at least 51 of them will burn through their cash and fail by next March .
" There 's been a lot of money thrown at the dot-com businesses to build an Internet infrastructure .
...
Those that fail are going to create opportunity for those that succeed , " Miller said .
Ozer buys and liquidates assets like websites , software , intellectual property , domain names , chat rooms , customer lists , and graphics .
Miller expects buyers will come from dot-coms looking to grow through acquisitions , and traditional brick-and-mortar companies aiming to branch into Internet commerce at bargain-basement prices .
" You can always define value based on what the market will bear , " said Miller .
Some will call in liquidators , like Ozer , and some will just shut off the lights and walk away , figuring it 's not worth the effort to sell some office furniture and a domain name .
Some may follow the lead of Craftshop.com , an Internet retailer of sewing , art , and hobby supplies , which last month filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in Delaware .
Chapter 11 protection is the traditional refuge sought by debt-laden traditional companies when they plan to keep operating but need the court to hold creditors at bay while they shed debt and reorganize .
" But what 's to reorganize ? " asked veteran bankruptcy attorney James Patton .
His firm , Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor , has represented more than 200 corporate debtors in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware since 1990 , including Continental Airlines , Columbia Gas , and Planet Hollywood .
" Dot-coms are put together with equity , not bond or bank debt .
Typically , startups have n't had a profit , and that makes it nearly impossible to reorganize , " Patton said .
" Besides , to these dot-com entrepreneurs , bankruptcy does n't look like a lot of fun , and I predict that they are n't going to stick around but will say ' the hell with this ' and turn around and start a new business . "
Craftshop said in its bankruptcy petition that it had debts of nearly $ 2 million but its asset value was " uncertain . "
Patton speculated that " Craftshop chose Chapter 11 because they have a controlling stockholder ... who can exercise control over the decisions of the debtor . "
Craftshop attorney Jillian Aylward says she persuaded founder Angus Mackie and his backers , including the Internet incubator CMGI and publisher Primedia , that bankruptcy was a " smart option . "
" As long as it 's a going concern , you can get a better price for it , " said Aylward .
Mackie had to shut down when backers , whom he calls " exceptional businessmen , " released only half of the $ 15 million they had committed to his start-up because revenue goals fell short .
But he is convinced that with more time and money , " Craftshop would be well on its way to a successful public stock offering . "
Apparently backer Primedia agrees .
According to court papers , " Primedia had expressed interest in purchasing the assets of . "
Craftshop
When asked why Primedia stopped financing Craftshop but now wanted to buy the assets , spokeswoman Eileen Murphy said , " I do n't know the answer to that question right now . "
A dot-com 's uncertainty may be an investor 's opportunity .




Give Your Opinions , Pay a Price

SEATTLE -- Empowering people to connect with virtually anyone on the globe could change the way people interact with businesses and newsmakers .
Some are calling the new trend that allows businesses and celebrity-types to get a single email that contains the opinions of a multitude of folks C2B , for " Consumer to Business , " or C2C for common-folk to celebs .
The basic idea of combining the letters from numerous people into a single entity for heightened effect is not a new idea , but it 's just starting to take hold in the online world .
Some , like the Canadian website the Squeaky Wheel , charge a fee for posting a complaint and provide a way to get others to join in.
Others are free , like TellThemNow.com , the brainchild of Seattle public relations executive Wiley Brooks .
Brooks is using his extensive stock of email addresses to put people in touch with almost anyone they read about in the newspaper .
However , visitors must register and have the option to give extensive demographic information about themselves .
Users also are asked to rate their own messages on a five-point scale from very positive to very negative .
" People are sophisticated enough to understand that market-research plays a role in getting your voice heard , " said Susanne Rosenkranz , a vice president of TellThemNow .
Steve Vonder Haar , an analyst with the Yankee Group , said the key to success for TellThemNow is the company 's ability to get users to provide the demographic information that will make the premium service valuable to recipients .
" If they 're successful in getting people to enter their personal information , " they have " a great potential " to be a profitable business , he said .
" That can be a very powerful tool to politicians and celebrities alike , whether they 're trying to get folks to vote for them or to sell them music or whatever , " Vonder Haar said . "
The big challenge for these guys is to gather the information to provide that . "
Vonder Haar said that getting even 25 percent of users to provide that kind of data can be difficult , and predicted that " at some point they 're going to have to provide some incentives for people " to fill out the demographic forms .
" Whether or not that will burst their business model is something I do n't know , " he said .
While he refused to give exact numbers , Brooks said twice as many people have been providing the demographic information as the company had originally projected .




MS to AOL : End IM Stranglehold

On the day it was ordered split in two for violating monopoly laws , Microsoft joined 42 other Internet companies to break America Online 's stranglehold on the instant-messaging market .
The group , FreeIM.org -- which includes Excite@Home , AltaVista and MSN.com -- petitioned both the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Communications Commission on Wednesday to facilitate instant messaging standards that would create a seamless chat network .
" The government should make it clear to the marketplace its expectation that no single provider will be allowed to put a wall around the market , either to keep their customers in or to keep competition and innovations out , " the petition says .
The proposal comes as the government continues to scrutinize the proposed America Online-Time Warner merger .
The consortium hopes the FTC and FCC will make IM interoperability a condition for the merger because AOL controls over 90 percent of the IM market through its AIM and ICQ applications , said independent consultant Blair Levin , the FCC 's former chief of staff .
The agencies could legally require AOL to open its standards as a condition of the merger , Levin said .
AOL could also simply stop blocking other companies from accessing its network or work with the Internet Engineering Task Force to develop a single standard which would be available to every company to access its chat applications .
If no standard is developed , consumers will n't have easy access to new communication technologies , said Ross Bagully , CEO of Tribal Voice , one of the founding members of the consortium .
" Instant messaging today is where the telephone was in 1910 , " he said . "
If there were no standards developed back then , the telephone system as we know it today would n't have developed .
Instant messaging is the future of communication because it gives consumers the ability to transfer information instantly and know when someone is available .
This is absolutely going to change everything we know about communication . "
But AOL spokeswoman Tricia Primrose said government intervention is unnecessary as the company supports developing an open standard that everyone can use .
" We are very supportive of the industry-wide efforts that would create an instant-messaging open-standard , " she said . "
We also think the IEPF is the exact forum to derive this standard .
" Where we have drawn a line in this process is over privacy and security issues , " she said . "
The IM environment we have now is one that we are able to control since it exists through the company .
So before we just rush out and come up with a flawed system , we should take some time now and come up with a solid , open system that is consumer-friendly . "
AOL already licenses out its IM technology to about a dozen companies , including Apple and Earthlink .
This is the latest skirmish in a battle that began last July , when Microsoft introduced an AOL-compatible , instant-messaging service .
The two companies then played a game of chicken , with AOL blocking MSN Messenger clients from accessing the network and Microsoft updating its software to restore access .
Eventually , Yahoo joined the fray as well , trying to connect its users to the popular AOL services .




Appeals Court Rules for MS

Microsoft won a round in its battle against the Justice Department Monday , when the U.S. Court of Appeals agreed to consider freezing a lower court order that forces the software giant to change its business practices , but the victory may be temporary .
The ruling contained something for each side and both claimed victory in a narrow procedural action that stopped far short of dealing with the lower court 's order to break up the company to stop it from abusing monopoly power .
" This moves things along about a foot , with several miles to go , " said Robert Litan , vice president and director of economic studies at The Brookings Institution .
The appeals court 's action is part of a complex interplay between the government , Microsoft , the trial court , the appeals court and the Supreme Court -- where the case is ultimately expected to be decided .
Earlier this month , District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ordered stringent conduct remedies to take effect September 5 for Microsoft .
He also ordered a break-up of the company , but delayed action on that until all appeals are complete .
Among other things , the conduct remedies require Microsoft to treat major computer makers the same and to permit them to customize how Microsoft 's Windows operating system appears on their screens .
Microsoft also would have to permit other software applications writers the same access to the company 's code that Microsoft 's own software writers enjoy .
Microsoft asked the appeals court to freeze Jackson 's conduct remedies from taking effect , denying all allegations and telling the appeals court it does not even hold a monopoly .
The Justice Department told the appeals court that Jackson should have a chance to act first on whether to halt the remedies .
The appeals court sided with Microsoft stating it would decide the question without waiting for Jackson .
The appeals court accepted a 39-page brief from Microsoft -- even though it was over the ordinary limit -- and told the Justice Department to reply within 10 days .
After that , Microsoft will have another seven days to comment .
" Clearly , we are pleased that the Appeals Court unanimously sided with Microsoft and rejected the government 's invitation to delay this process , " said Jim Cullinan , a Microsoft spokesman , from company headquarters in Redmond , Washington .
But the victory could be short-lived .
The government has asked Jackson to certify the landmark antitrust case directly to the Supreme Court .
Judge Jackson may send the case straight to the high court under a law that applies in antitrust suits brought by the United States , skipping the appeals court .
Microsoft was to file later on Monday , explaining why Jackson should not send the case directly to the Supreme Court .
But Jackson has said in the past that he thinks sending the case straight to the Supreme Court is a good idea .
The appeals court ordered in its Monday ruling that if Jackson sends the case straight to the Supreme Court , then its briefing schedule would be automatically suspended .
" We are very pleased with the court 's ruling that it would stay further proceedings if the District Court certifies the case for direct appeal to the Supreme Court , " a Justice Department spokeswoman said .
But that victory , too , may or may not last .
If five Supreme Court justices decide against taking the direct appeal , they will send it back to the appeals court .
At that point , under the order issued Monday , the schedule would pick up where it left off -- without counting the time in between .
" This is a temporary victory for Microsoft , " said the Brookings Institution 's Litan . "
They got what they wanted , which is to have the circuit court hear the stay motion without waiting for Jackson to act . "
But Litan said Judge Jackson " can step in and rain on Microsoft 's parade by certifying the case directly to the Supreme Court .
If that happens , then the circuit court is basically in a holding pattern waiting for the Supreme Court to decide what to do . "




Gauging Game Violence

With the DOOM remake on the horizon , gamers -- and parents -- may wonder just how far a computer game can go in depicting hardcore violence .
Pretty far , judging from the recently released Soldier of Fortune .
Developed by Raven Software and published by Activision , Soldier of Fortune casts gamers in the role of a mercenary hunting for stolen nukes in a variety of global hot spots , including Kosovo , Central Africa , and the New York subway .
While Soldier of Fortune serves up run-of-the-mill shooter fare , the game stands out for its unmatched level of violence .
Limbs severed by shotgun blasts , pulsating intestines protruding from gaping stomach wounds , and exploding heads are the norm .
" Soldier of Fortune definitely reached a new level of gore , " said Robert Coffey , associate editor of Ziff-Davis ' Computer Gaming World magazine .
Coffey believes Raven has upped the violence ante for future games .
" I 'm sure other games will follow , " Coffey added . "
Raven is already soliciting ideas for a Soldier of Fortune sequel , and the call from fans so far has been for more gore .
Other games will try to jump on board the violence bandwagon , hoping to exploit the shock value . "
The flip side of the shoot 'em up craze , of course , is the public backlash against violent games .
To this end , Raven has hedged its bet with Soldier of Fortune by releasing a " Tactical Low-violence Version . "
Translation ?
You still shoot hundreds of people , but they do not bleed .
Bloody or not , game violence is a genuine concern , according to Dr. KarenDill , a researcher at Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory , North Carolina .
Dill recently co-authored a study linking violent games to aggressive behavior .
Ironically , Dill used Wolfenstein 3-D as the test game in her research .
Although Dill has n't played Soldier of Fortune , she expressed concern that gore levels might be ratcheted up industry-wide .
" As the graphics of video games in general get more realistic the danger of them eliciting aggression in the consumer would be greater , " Dill said .
" When you are exposed to violence like you are in video games where kids and others play them for so many hours at a time , that desensitizes you to what you are seeing . "




Startup Eyes Disability Market

SAN FRANCISCO -- A San Diego startup is developing a technology that dynamically generates custom-user interfaces for all kinds of computing devices -- laptops , handhelds , and cell phones .
Edapta 's technology will initially be targeted to disabled users , but the company said it hopes it will take off in the wireless , post-PC world when information is delivered to a variety of gadgets , ranging from set-top boxes and game consoles to Net-connected cars .
Introduced at this week 's JavaOne conference , Edapta 's Edaptive Engine is server-based software that queries a device for its display profile and adapts the interface elements according to things like screen size and resolution and the presence or absence of a keyboard or mouse .
Based on Sun 's Jini , a networking technology that automatically recognizes new devices connecting to a network , the Edaptive Engine can automatically adapt interfaces for disabled users , who also have a wide range of interface needs .
For example , the technology could adapt a website for blind visitors who use screen-reader software to access the site .
Because navigation buttons and advertisements are clutter to a screen reader , the site would trim these elements and display only the most important information on the site .
" You need to tell a blind person what 's on a page before telling them how to navigate it , " said Jack Berkowitz , Edapta 's chief technology officer .
Likewise , the technology can dynamically modify the same site for Braille readers , increase the contrast for partially sighted visitors , or add oversize scroll bars and icons for visitors with disabilities that affecting their motor control .
It even can translate the page into a variety of different languages , company officials said .
The user simply sets up a digital profile listing their needs or preferences , and the software , which sits on the server , generates the appropriate interface on the fly .
The software initially was developed for the military for use in command centers where changing battlefield conditions dictate how information is presented .
Edapta said it will initially target big companies that need to accommodate staff with disabilities .




Games Distracting at JavaOne

SAN FRANCISCO -- Companies from all over the world have shelled out thousands of dollars to send delegates to Sun 's JavaOne here this week .
But instead of going to the talks and seminars and soaking information about Java , hordes of shiftless employees are wasting time playing computer games , watching movies in the conference center 's lobby , and checking out new cars .
Actually , the car , which is displayed on the show floor , is Ford 's concept car that looks like a butt-ugly mix between a Humvee and a VW Beetle .
Called the 24.7 because of its constant wireless connection to the Net , the car dispenses with traditional buttons , dials , and speedometers in favor of voice commands and virtual-status displays , which are digitally projected onto the dashboard .
The digital dash can display traditional controls -- things like speed , engine temperature , and radio settings -- but also shows maps and driving directions .
It can even be used to watch videos , read email , or see what 's in the rearview mirrors , which are actually backwards-pointing video cameras .
While the digital dash was being used to display loud pop videos during the show , it is entirely configurable in terms of what and how it displays information .
" Think of it as a canvas , " said Ganapathy Chockalingham , a software engineer who helped build it . "
You can paint whatever you want to see there . "
Put together by Ford 's own designers , the vehicle has some nice touches .
The gas pedal is marked with a big " plus " sign , the brake pedal a " minus . "
The tread of the tires are cut so the tracks look like a bar code .
The car has been shown at several auto shows -- the king of Sweden recently went to the Swedish motor show just to see it , Chockalingham said -- but JavaOne is the first computer show it has been rolled out for .
Why ?
Ford wants to attract Java developers .
" It 's silicon , not just metal , " Chockalingham said .
Chockalingham said most people are clearly impressed with the digital dash , but one bystander expressed alarm .
" It really scares me a lot , " the onlooker said . "
To me it 's very scary to see all that activity and multimedia going on under the windshield . "
Chockalingham gently assured him the car was purely experimental .
" What we 're trying to see here is what features we 're going to put into future cars , " he said soothingly . "
It 's a concept car , not a prototype . "
While some cruised the floor for the latest and greatest Java-related information , others hung out in the lobby and relaxed with games and movies .




Feds Worried About Cell Phones

WASHINGTON -- U.S. health officials said on Thursday they would oversee new industry-funded studies to address lingering questions about whether radiation from cellular phones may be harmful to users .
The Food and Drug Administration said it would recommend the research design and review the progress of the studies , which were being funded by the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association .
The FDA advises people concerned about cell phone use to limit phone time or choose a model that puts some distance between their bodies and the phone 's antenna .
Third-party researchers will conduct the studies , and the FDA will review the results .
The research is expected to last three to five years .
The CTIA said studies so far show cell phones do not cause health problems .
The FDA , which has authority over devices that emit radiation , said it does not have enough information to conclude whether cell phones pose any risk .
" Although research to date does not show that mobile phones pose a significant health hazard , there is not enough information at this point to be absolutely certain that these products are without risk , " the FDA said in a statement .
Some studies " have raised questions that need further exploration , " the FDA said .
Some people have wondered whether long-term exposure to the low levels of radiation that cell phones emit could pose a safety risk .
A debate began in 1993 when a Florida man alleged that cell phone use caused his wife 's brain tumor .
Research to date has not erased concerns , and industry groups had been seeking government oversight of future studies .
" The wireless industry is committed to consumer safety and to addressing concerns the public might have about wireless phones , " Tom Wheeler , CTIA 's president and chief executive , said in a statement .
The new research will include both laboratory studies and studies of cellular phone users , the FDA said , adding that it would convene meetings of international experts to help oversee the studies .




New School of Thought on Piracy

The male college student is generally considered to be the archetypical Web music pirate .
Not so fast .
A survey conducted by the Pew Internet and American Life Project , a nonprofit research center , contradicts that view .
In fact , it found that the majority of those illegally downloading music are not college students at all .
The phone survey of 2,503 American adults taken in April indicated that of the 13 million American " freeloaders , " only 37 percent are college students .
In fact , fewer than half are between the ages of 18-29 .
48 percent
Forty-two percent are between 30-49 , while the remaining 10 percent are over 50 .
Men are more likely to download illegal music files than women : Sixty-four percent of the respondents who admitted pirating music are male .
Even though the Recording Industry Association of America has devoted considerable effort towards squelching piracy on college campuses through a campaign to educate administrators about copyright law , the RIAA still lauded the study .
" The behavior tracked by Pew and the attitude toward the value of information is a central public policy issue of our time , " wrote Amy Weiss , the RIAA 's vice president for communications , in an email . "
The evidence they have uncovered is disturbing and no surprise to us . "
But the demographics of music pirates has turned some heads in the industry , said Amanda Lenhart , a Pew research specialist .
She said the study should encourage label executives to create easy-to-use alternatives to programs like Napster and Gnutella because people are willing to pay for music they find online .
" We did go back to a sample of the freeloaders we had interviewed that one of the trends was that people used Napster and Gnutella to sample music and to find new music , " said Lenhart . "
and found
We also found that as a trend ... people are going out and purchasing the music they 've downloaded . "
Chuck Mitchell , the president of independent label Transparent Music , said the major labels need to take the demographic information and begin to think about digital music in a new way .
" There will be changes in music content brought on by the digital technology , " said Mitchell , who used to run Universal 's Verve Records . "
We might create an entire class of music that is meant only to be downloaded -- that holds no interest to brick-and-mortar retail -- that we market only for a digital audience .
I think a subscription model with specific artists , or in the case of trusted brands like the Blue Note jazz label , can be branded and people will pay for it . "
they
The recording industry is struggling to find secure technologies that are also easy to use , Lenhart said . "
We do n't have any numbers to back this up , but anecdotally we 've heard that people go to Napster because it was so easy to use , " Lenhart said . "
You just go to the application and boom , you have the song . "
The industry is starting to catch on .
On the same day the Pew study was released , BMG Entertainment announced a deal with digital music company MusicBank that will allow users to access on-demand streaming of their personal music collections .
People have been reluctant to pay for digital music when it 's more convenient to download it for free .
Only 2 percent of those surveyed said they had ever paid to download a song , which is bad news for a company like emusic.com .
According to Listen.com , there are approximately 500,000 legitimate MP3 songs available to users .
The Pew study estimates that Napster 's network provides access to 1 billion copies of various songs .
Fortunately for the music industry , the study found that not everyone on the Internet is rushing out to steal music .
Over three-quarters of the Internet users polled had never downloaded a music file , and 62 percent had never even listened to online music .




BMG First Label to Sell Streams

As two of the major labels finalized settlement deals behind closed doors with MP3.com that will allow the company to license music content through its streaming music service , one recording company announced a similar deal on Thursday with a competing digital music company .
A source familiar with the current settlement talks confirmed that both Warner Music and BMG Entertainment signed deals with MP3.com on Thursday , although terms of the deal were not released .
But BMG announced an agreement with San Francisco startup MusicBank that will enable the users to stream music from a personal music collection on demand .
The service will allow music to be instantly " beamed " into a virtual storage locker from either online or offline retail stores .
" We have wanted to be involved in on-demand digital streaming for some time , " said Kevin Conroy , chief marketing officer and president of new technology for BMG Entertainment . "
We 've been in discussions with MP3.com and MusicBank , but we chose MusicBank because they offer a very innovative service which will provide fans convenient access to their favorite music from BMG 's artists . "
According to Conroy , technical engineers from the label have been working with MusicBank for several months to create a secure environment for streaming .
The MusicBank service mirrors my.mp3.com , MP3.com 's application that allows registered users to access music from the company 's database of encoded music .
Before users can have the music streamed to them , they have to load a physical CD that contains the album into their computer to prove they own the music .
Like MP3.com , MusicBank has compiled a database of roughly 100,000 albums , but CEO Michael Downing said the music will not be streamed until his company has obtained all of the necessary licenses from EMI , Warner Music , Sony Music , and the Universal Music Group .
MP3.com stopped streaming major-label music in May after it lost a copyright infringement lawsuit to the Recording Industry Association of America .
But Downing said that his service actually provides the novice Internet user with safe and legal access to major-label content .
At the company 's launch this August , users will be able to move music purchased online directly into a virtual storage locker .
Downing said that in September , traditional retail outlets would have the ability to move music into the virtual music locker as well .
" There has been a split between the benefits from the illegal models out there for delivering streamed music and the comfortable process of purchasing a CD , " said Michael Downing , co-founder , president and CEO of MusicBank . "
We are trying to go after the mass market , not people engaging in the download market .
We are going after the mass audience who may not have had any experience in ripping CDs . "




Analysts to Corel : Keep Cutting

OTTAWA -- Corel , the Canadian software maker that 's treading water in an ocean of red ink , must make deeper cost cuts to keep the company afloat , even after axing one-fifth of its work force , analysts say .
Ottawa-based Corel , which laid off 320 staffers Thursday and said its chief executive would not draw his salary this year , will need to slash another $ 10 million to $ 20 million in costs to meet its $ 40 million savings target , analysts said .
" The cuts that they announced yesterday look to me to get maybe half of the cost savings that the company has announced they are going for , " said BlueStone Capital Partners ' Jean Orr , one of the few analysts who follows Corel .
" I think there are going to have to be other cuts made .
Whether or not they can do that without cutting more people , I 'm not sure . "
The company , which analysts expect to lose about $ 20 million in both its upcoming second and third quarters , has been struggling since a merger with Inprise/Borland Corp. was aborted , derailing its recovery plans .
The death of that deal in May snatched Inprise/Borland 's approximately $ 240 million in cash reserves from Corel 's reach and nixed a $ 29.5 million termination fee .
Corel said it can not disclose the savings or severance costs from Thursday 's layoffs because it is in a quiet period after filing a prospectus for a recent financing .
In late May , Corel secured a desperately needed , $ 20 million financial lifeline in a deal with Canaccord Capital Corp. , for which it will issue 7.3 million shares .
Corel warned that without the Inprise/Borland deal or financing it faced a cash crunch by July .
Best known for its graphics and word processing software , Corel entered the Linux software market last year , but has not seen that technology make a major contribution to revenues .
First-quarter sales sank nearly 40 percent from the fourth quarter as demand for flagship WordPerfect and CorelDraw software lines stalled and Linux sales slipped to $ 2.3 million from $ 3.2 million .
Corel reported first quarter expenses of $ 43 million and fiscal 1999 expenses of $ 170 million .
Annual expenses included $ 48 million for advertising , $ 82 million for sales and administration , and $ 40 million for research and development .
Corel is widely expected to trim about $ 10 million from its advertising budget , but the source of further cuts remains a matter of speculation .
There are limited pools from which Corel can skim further costs because software companies spend the bulk of their money on staffing .
If layoffs were primarily aimed at junior staff , rather than high-cost developer talent , Corel may still need to make dramatic cuts .
" If that 's the case , then this looks like it 's a half or a third of the way there , " said David Wright , a technology analyst at BMO Nesbitt Burns . "
I 'd want to see who the people are who are being trimmed . "
Corel may also consider selling core assets or its stake in the string of Linux startups in which it has recently invested .
" I think that the recent financing means that they do n't want to sell any of the assets -- at least in the near term , " said Orr . "
Of those companies , GraphOn is the only publicly held company and that stock is quite depressed at this point . "
Corel sold 541,000 shares of California software developer GraphOn Corp. for $ 8.9 million in the first quarter .
Corel , which exchanged its Java business for a stake in GraphOn , has a remaining 1.8 million shares .
Duncan Stewart , a fund manager at Tera Capital Corp. , who has previously held Corel stock in the technology funds he manages , expects further cuts will involve fine tuning .
" They 're most of the way there .
They have to do some cuts on advertising and buying new computers and that sort of stuff -- the discretionary stuff , " said Stewart , who does not currently own any Corel shares and has no short or long positions on the stock .
Shares in Corel rose 9.5 percent early Friday but then slipped back to a modest increase of 20 Canadian cents at CN$7.60 on the Toronto Stock Exchange in early afternoon trading .
On Nasdaq , the issue added 1/8 to 5-5/32 .
" Getting expenses under control is positive and the fact that Microsoft is having some problems with the Justice Department is positive for Corel , " said Louis Kates , technology analyst at Credifinance Securities Ltd.




Germans Dumping Nuclear Power

BERLIN -- The German government and the country 's electricity industry appear ready to agree on a phase out plan for nuclear power this week , following a negotiating breakthrough achieved last week .
Chancellor Gerhard Schrder and Manfred Remmel , president and CEO of the power firm RWE Energie , reached a tentative agreement last Wednesday .
However , no deadline has been established for when all of Germany 's 20 nuclear power stations would have to be shut down .
Tough negotiating is expected to continue on several areas , but a draft of the consensus paper leaked to the German press shows most of the agreement is in place .
One stumbling block , the fate of the Mlheim-Krlich nuclear reactor , has been overcome .
It was closed in 1988 after only 13 months in service , but now its owner , RWE has won the government 's acceptance of the station 's inclusion in what the leaders called a " burden sharing " framework .
Under this arrangement , the industry will be allowed to generate a set volume of electricity and to share this between power stations -- including the generating capacity of Mlheim-Krlich .
A key element of the deal yet to be decided is how much electricity the industry will be allowed to generate from nuclear plants , though figures of 2,600 to 2,700 terawatt hours of electricity are reported to be under discussion .
It is unclear how this will translate into reactor lifetimes .
Previously , the government was pushing for a maximum 30-year life span per reactor , while the industry wanted each reactor to be allowed 35 years of actual operations .
Utilities that generate power will be free to trade or share whatever level of production is allowed .
This , and the fact that the agreement still lacks a final cap date by which power stations would have to shut down , is expected to lead to friction within the Red/Green coalition government , especially if the power generators win generous terms .
The minority Green coalition partner has already compromised significantly on its initial demands in agreeing to a common position with its Social Democratic Party partner .
SPD
Other elements of the draft deal include a commitment by the government not to require closure of Germany 's two oldest reactors -- started up in 1968 and 1972 -- before the end of 2002 at the earliest .
This marks a further setback for the Green party , which wanted some power stations closed before the next general election , due in 2002 .
In addition , the government is pledging not to change current safety standards for nuclear power stations or to introduce new taxes or other measures that would discriminate against the industry .
The deal will include a ban on transport of spent fuel for reprocessing from July 1 , 2005 , with companies being urged to stop the practice sooner if possible .
This provision will be a blow to nuclear fuel reprocessors French owned Cogema and British Nuclear Fuels , already under fire for radiation leaks and safety management problems .




Harnessing Money for Eco-Power

One of the worlds largest companies wants to capture $ 1 billion in the global market for wind power and other renewable energy technologies .
Asea Brown Boveri outlined its strategy for alternative energy solutions at an online news conference held Thursday in London .
ABB
It says its share of the green power market will reach the $ 1 billion mark within five years .
" We have developed technologies that make wind power and other renewable and alternative energies economically attractive for the first time , " said president and CEO Goran Lindahl .
" Especially important is the information technology and communication features that weve built into the systems , making them easier to operate and maintain and much more cost effective than conventional approaches . "
Demand for alternative energy sources and small scale power generation -- wind farms , fuel cells , and plants generating combined heat and power known as cogeneration -- has been sparked by deregulation around the world , which has forced power suppliers to put a higher priority on profitability .
Small-scale power requires less up front capital investment , and often can meet this need better than conventional large power plants , Lindahl explained .
" With deregulation in the power market , global efforts to cut pollution , and government initiatives to boost electricity production from alternative energy , especially in Europe , we think this market is poised for tremendous growth , " said Lindahl . "
With our technologies and global scope , we intend to be a leader in this market worldwide . "
ABB unveiled its new Windformer technology during the news conference , which it claims will enable the economical development of windfarms with outputs of 300 megawatts or more .
MW
This size is equivalent to a medium-sized fossil fuel power plant , but the Windformer reduces power losses and can be used to connect wind farms directly to larger power grids , even from offshore .
ABB is currently testing a 500 kilowatt prototype .
kW
Vattenfall , the Nordic energy group , has agreed to install a 3 to 3.5 megawatt demonstration plant expected to go into operation in the summer of 2001 .
MW
Governments are reducing their emission of greenhouse gases from the combustion of fossil fuels .
The European Commission recently set a target of 22 percent of electricity on the continent to come from renewable energy by 2010 , a 50 percent increase from 1997 .
Distributed power generation can reduce emissions of carbon dioxide , the major greenhouse gas linked to global warming .
ABB estimates that the continuing shift to renewable and small distributed power facilities will reduce emissions while increasing power output .
ABB , headquartered in Zurich , Switzerland , has shifted its corporate strategy from being primarily a builder of large fossil fuel powered plants , and has targeted alternative energy as a growth opportunity .
In July 1999 , ABB merged its power generation interests with those of ALSTOM of France to form ABB Alstom Power .
The company specializes in transmission and distribution of power .
" This will not replace large scale power generation , " said Lindahl in reference to renewable energy technologies . "
Its a complement ... that will offer a more economically viable and environmentally preferable solution , demanded in many parts of the world .
which is
" More than 750 million homes around the world do not have access to electricity , and small-scale power generation could reduce the need to build large-scale power projects in the developing world .
This would have significant environmental and financial benefits , Lindahl explained .
ABB has been a supplier to the wind power industry for 20 years .
Currently , ABB has more than 25 percent of the market for wind turbine generators , with more than 7,000 generators in operation in Sweden , Denmark , the Netherlands , Germany , and elsewhere .
The ABB Group offers power transmission and distribution ; automation ; oil , gas , and petrochemicals ; building technologies ; and financial services .
It employs 165,000 people in 100 countries .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS




Stephen King , the E-Publisher

An open letter to his readers appeared on Stephen King 's official website Friday that has far-reaching implications for the publishing industry .
" Dear Constant Reader , " the letter begins , going on to describe an epistolary novel called The Plant which King began in the 1980s but gave up when other projects intervened .
His letter continues : " Now it has occurred to me that it might be amusing to put it up on this website , in installments of 5,000 words each -- something like that , anyway .
If this idea interests you , will you email the website and say so ?
By the same token , if it sounds like a bad idea , will you tell me that ? "
King explains that he has been intrigued by the success of Riding the Bullet -- his e-book novella released early this spring which sold over 500,000 copies .
" Stunned , " would probably be a more accurate word , he wrote .
Since Riding the Bullet , he has been eager to try something similar .
Commenting on issues of ownership when it comes to creative work on the Net , King admits to being puzzled by , but applauds , Metallica 's decision to " try and put a few spikes into the big , cushy radial tire that is Napster . "
Creative people should be paid for their work , King writes , just as plumbers and carpenters and accountants are paid for theirs .
" On the other hand , " King 's letter continues , " I think that the current technology is rapidly turning the whole idea of copyright into a risky proposition -- not quite a joke , but something close to it . "
King proposes fans pay $ 1 per installment and suggests everyone be on the honor system .
He said he 'll cease publication if too many people steal the story .
" But I just do n't believe that will happen .
I mean , we 're talking a buck a pop here , right ? "
King finishes up by asking .
King appears to be picking up the torch raised last November by Jason Epstein of Random House .
Epstein suggested that as e-books and print-on-demand books gained acceptance , authors would become their own publishers , cut out the middle-men -- the bookstores and the publishers themselves -- and sell books from their own websites .
" The future of publishing , indeed its salvation , is on the Internet , " said Epstein , who predicted authors who would not need or want publishers , would handle their own marketing or outsource it , and would communicate directly with their readers .
At the time , industry executives were skeptical .
In fact , in March , Stephen King 's own agent , Ralph Vicinanza , said in Publisher 's Weekly that King had no desire to become his own publisher .
" Well , this sure looks like King is going into publishing to me , " said a publishing industry source who requested anonymity . "
It 's just the beginning -- there are going to be more and more creative alternatives to traditional publishing via the Web and I think a lot of publishers are getting nervous . "
In light of King 's newest Internet venture , Epstein predicts that in the electronic future publishers and authors will have to agree upon an equitable distribution of proceeds reflecting their respective contributions which will bear little resemblance to traditional formulas .
" Since authors enjoy the stronger negotiating position , the outcome will be in their favor , although publishers will certainly put up a struggle , " he said .
Douglas Clegg , who posted the Net 's first serial thriller in 1999 and is the winner of the Bram Stoker Award and the International Horror Guild Award for The Nightmare Chronicles , is thrilled that King has discovered what many novelists on the Internet have known for a few years : When there 's a new medium , there 's a new message .
" And the message of the Internet is ' global community , ' " Clegg said . "
Welcome to it , Stephen , look around and find out what many of us have been doing here for the past few years .
It 's a trusting and trustworthy community . "




Not All is Fair at Expo 2000

BERLIN - As it turns out , the Americans are n't the only ones staying away from this year 's World 's Fair in Hannover , Germany .
The United States may be the only major country without a pavilion at this year 's Expo 2000 , but the crowds seem to have stayed home as well .
Despite the concerted effort to make the fair surprising and compelling , Expo 2000 , which features exhibits from more than 150 countries , has failed to attract the huge crowd anticipated by organizers .
While 150,000 visitors showed up for opening day on June 1 , attendance has been averaging just 70,000 visitors per day .
That has some wondering if World Fairs have outlived their usefulness .
" The bottom line is that World Fairs hardly make sense these days , " according to a commentary in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung . "
Information about new products and machinery is passed on through other channels , or through trade fairs .
The digital images which have deluged the public at recent expos can now be downloaded elsewhere . "
Organizers originally projected crowds in June to number 150,000 per day .
Those figures are expected to skyrocket with an anticipated 300,000 to 400,000 visitors per day in August and September .
The goal of 20 million to 25 million visitors would still leave organizers with nearly $ 200 million in losses .
The last World 's Fair , held two years ago in Lisbon , Portugal , also had a slow start , and ended up falling more than $ 300 million below the break-even point .
CeBIT , the massive computer trade show held in March in Hannover , drew more than 700,000 people in one week .
It was not the U.S. 's foresight about such expos that kept it away from the World 's Fair , but cash considerations .
Not enough corporations were willing to sponsor and pay for the U.S. pavilion .
" We certainly tried and I personally put some time into trying to get something to happen , " U.S. ambassador to Germany John Kornblum told The New York Times . "
But in the end , globalization did us in. "
The low turnout resulted in layoffs for more than 100 souvenir-stand workers .
So far projections of hundreds of more layoffs have yet to happen .




Benefits Seen in MS Split

Microsoft product aficionados may resent Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson 's order to break up the company , but they have nothing to worry about , consumer affairs experts say .
If the company was to lose an appeal and split into two parts , consumers in the long run are most likely to benefit from a broader array of operating systems and applications , observers say .
" In the present immediately after the breakup , neither the consumer or investors are likely to see anything different , " said Richard Gilbert , an economics professor at the University of California at Berkeley .
" A few months after the breakup , I would n't be surprised if we see a price increase for either operating systems or applications , " he said . "
Microsoft
The reason is that right now both the applications side and the operating systems side profit from sales made by the other side , and that serves as an incentive to keep prices down . "
Jackson ordered that the company be sliced in half to have one company represent its operating system and the other its applications .
Gilbert said the two new companies would be forced to become more innovative by having to design products compatible with competing operating systems and applications .
" That should be good for consumers , " he said .
But as usual , Microsoft is putting up a fight , arguing that its innovation will be stifled by a breakup .
Evan R. Cox , a San Francisco attorney who has represented Microsoft on piracy issues in the past , said the split would certainly hurt the operating systems side of the company because it could not become a player in the future wave of handheld devices and wireless communication .
Under the judge 's order , any speech and handwriting-recognition products and developer tools can only be developed and distributed by the applications company and not the operating systems side .
And unlike the AT&T split-up , which Cox called voluntary and not government-enforced , the entire infrastructure of Microsoft would have to change , possibly halting production .
One of the premises for Jackson 's ruling is that the Windows operating system is integrated into the Internet Explorer browser .
The ruling forces Microsoft to create applications without the integration of the Windows operating system .
" Do you put efforts in developing an operating system if there are no apps ? " he asked . "
How do you write apps if you do n't know what the operating systems will do ? "
Gilbert said the split would not mean that the companies could not still work together .
" It 's important to realize that the proposed breakup does n't keep the other side from investing in each others ' businesses as long as they do it independently , " Gilbert said .
Observers who attended Friday 's PC Data 2000 Trends Conference in San Francisco also were unfazed by Microsoft 's impassioned claims .
Lynette Latta , director of consumer marketing for Encore Software , said consumers could only benefit from the innovations of smaller companies that do not have the money or clout of Microsoft .
Brian Wu , project supervisor for marketing and business development at Primax , a computer peripheral manufacturer , said a breakup would n't phase out the Microsoft products he owns .
" Maybe the way they operate as a business will change , but on the consumer side , not much will change , " he said .




Bluetooth Love Triangle

Motorola will be working with computer makers IBM and Toshiba to offer Bluetooth technology across parts of its personal computer lines , it said Monday .
Bluetooth is a radio link that enables electronic devices such as cellphones and computers to hook up remotely .
The telecommunications equipment and chipmaker said it will also be offering cards and accessories that would allow a personal computer and a handheld computer to wirelessly exchange files and synchronize data .
Motorola is working with its Digianswer subsidiary to supply an embedded Bluetooth technology for use inside personal computer and peripheral devices such as printers .
The company said smaller , lower power modules are expected to be available later this year and in early 2001 .
Motorola also said it is introducing a Bluetooth-enabled car kit , which allows users to transfer calls between a cellphone and a car phone .
Motorola said it expects to announce specific automotive Bluetooth contracts later this year .
- - -
Vodafone takes charge : Vodafone AirTouch , the voracious British telecom , is taking control of Airtel , Spain 's second largest mobile operator , ending a yearlong dispute with British Telecommunications over Airtel .
BT said it would back any move by Vodafone to raise its holding to 55 percent .
In return , Vodafone has agreed that if it increases its stake to more than 55 percent , both British groups will have equal representation on the board of a company that has been valued at up to 30 billion euros .
$ 28.6 billion
BT also has an option to acquire any excess in the group , representatives for the two companies said .
- - -
Job discovery channel : Calling itself the " world 's first digital TV recruitment channel " -- looking to bring the latest technology to the everyday task of job hunting -- TV Job Shop announced its arrival on Monday .
The British company , headquartered near London , will advertise jobs on a live ticker tape that can be accessed on its TV channel and its website .
Job applicants will be able to interact with the service using TV remote control , the Internet , or by telephoning a call-center .
TV Job Shop will be available to BSkyB 's digital subscribers and said it is currently negotiating with other media firms .
The 24 hour cable channel , set to launch in the fall , will focus on white-collar sectors such as information technology and telecommunications , law , banking , accounting , and the media .
- - -
Northrop to buy Comptek : Defense firm Northrop Grumman agreed to buy military systems maker Comptek Research for $ 155.6 million in stock , boosting its business in electronic battle management and computer warfare , it said today .
The purchase of Buffalo , NewYork-based Comptek will not affect Northrop 's 2000 earnings guidance of $ 9.30 to $ 9.60 a share , Northrop said .
The deal is expected to close within 60 days .
Northrop will pay about $ 20.75 of its stock for each Comptek share .
The exchange ratio will not be more than 0.2804 shares , or less than 0.2470 shares , for each Comptek share .
- - -
GST to go to auction block : Failed local exchange communications carrier GST Telecommunications said Monday that it will proceed with an open auction for all of its assets rather than a sale to Time Warner Telecom after the U.S. firm failed to reach a deal with GST .
GST said it will seek approval for an open bid from the Delaware District Court .
GST filed for Chapter 11 in May after being saddled with a $ 1.2 billion debt trying to gain a foothold in the hotly contested competitive local exchange market .
- - -
EToys takeover : Online toy seller eToys said it had agreed to buy select assets of the eParties unit of Internet company eCompanies for $ 1.6 million in stock .
The Santa Montica-based eToys said the deal furthers its plans to launch a party store at its website this year .
Under the agreement , eToys will purchase the eParties name and certain proprietary technology , including software that allows for customization and personalization of party planning .
Reuters contributed to this report




DirecTV 's Swiss Army Box

Microsoft and its technology partners hope a new integrated television/Internet service will keep viewers glued to their Barcalounger .
The new television platform combines four TV and Internet technologies in a single box : DirecTV programming , digital video recording , enhanced TV , and Internet access .
The set-top box , which will be available for the holiday shopping season , has both the ability to record up to 30 hours of programming and the functionality of enhanced television , including advertising interaction and email capabilities .
According to Microsoft , the system is the first " picture-in-picture " DirecTV system that enables viewers to watch one program while recording another .
" This is about taking software and services that will make TV great by allowing you to control when and what you watch as well as offering interactive components to your television , " said Rob Schoeben , senior director of marketing for Microsoft 's WebTV Networks .
Schoeben said the company is de-emphasizing Web surfing in this product because " the PC offers the best platform for that . "
To access the new services , users need the RCA DirecTV system which includes two satellite tuners and a hard drive for recording and watching multiple shows .
Also included in the system is a digital satellite receiver , and an optional wireless keyboard that can be used with interactive TV programming .
Pricing information was not released .
" People are going to buy this because digital video recording is the killer app , " Schoeben said . "
That 's the point of this , because the TV is such a household purchase that we needed to come up with an array of functions . "
A Forrester Research report estimates that by 2004 , the personal recording market will grow to 14 million consumers who spend an average of $ 400 more on goods and services than regular television viewers .
Those same consumers will then spend an additional $ 200-300 every few years to upgrade their systems .
Later this year , Microsoft competitor TiVo will debut an all-in-one set-top box with DirecTV that offers similar services sans Internet access .
" We 've found that primary interest is getting a better television experience , so adding that Internet function is not a priority for us , " said Brodie Keast , vice president of marketing for TiVo . "
consumers '
Our belief is that the PC is a better platform for general-purpose Web browsing . "
TiVo currently has a stand-alone product that works with DirecTV .
But Keast said when the new device rolls out this fall , users will have a more efficient set-top box that is still compatible .




Do ' Dissed ' Teachers Have Case ?

Go to any consumer-oriented website and you 'll find reviews of the newest refrigerators , PDAs , and cars .
So what happens when people are reviewed for the job they do ?
The reviewers end up in court .
Several professors from San Francisco City College are suing the webmaster of a site that posts evaluations of their classes .
What happens with the case may have implications for other sites that follow the same model .
Teacher Review provides a forum for students at the college to voice their opinions about their professors .
The entries range from enthusiastic raves to venomous personal attacks .
Here 's one of the good ones , from a student who places a professor on the A-list : " He 's very well organized , always available for office hours , and always available for questions .
He gives plenty of practice material and detailed answer sheets for them .
His lectures were interesting and engaging . "
Here 's one from the bottom 10 , concerning a professor given an F : " It is difficult to be thoughtful and proper when writing or talking about this pompous , misoginyst , racist , socially impaired , power-hungry , butt-hole from outer space .
sic
...
Do n't take his classes , he should be thrown out of City College .
Try him for a day or two if you must , but as soon as you see the madness creep in , get the hell out of there .
He should not be a teacher . "
Negative posts like this sparked two professors to take legal action against the school , the posters , and Ryan Lathouwers , the creator and webmaster of the site .
Professors Daniel Curzon-Brown and Jesse David Wall are asking for damages for defamation , spreading false light , and intentional infliction of emotional distress .
" It 's criminal behavior , " said Curzon-Brown , an English professor at City College . "
It destroys our reputations . "
The defendants filed a motion to dismiss .
Whether or not the professors have a case will be decided on June 14 .
" If he 's not making any money off of the site and it 's purely provided as a public forum , it 's likely to be a purely First Amendment issue , " said Jason Epstein of Baker Donelson Bearman & Caldwell . "
In this case , most probably wins . "
Lathouwers
On the other hand , Epstein said , if he is making money from the site , and he can control what the poster is saying -- for example , if he edits the postings -- then he may be liable .
In addition , if the plaintiffs can track down who posted the derogatory comments , they may be able to collect damages .
" These reviews said I killed a student ; one said that I had sex in the classroom , " Curzon-Brown said .
" You always have a right to sue the alleged direct defamer , " Epstein said .
But that does not mean you win , he added .
And there needs to be proof of damages , as well .
Lathouwers did not return calls seeking comment on the suit .
Another site , TeacherReviews.com , will watch what happens in the case .
The site follows a similar format , but includes reviews from universities all over the world .
" We 've thought about , but it has n't concerned us , " said Dylan Greene , the site 's co-founder and president . "
the lawsuit
We 've got bigger , better things to worry about . "
The site has been around for a year , and so far , there have been few complaints , according to Greene .
Lathouwers , a defendant in the case , is the site engineer for TeacherReviews.com as well .
" We 're trying our best to make it a site you can trust and there have n't been any problems yet , " Greene said .
Epstein , who specializes in the Internet and e-commerce , said that these types of sites are getting more and more common .
But Curzon-Brown is angry that the focus is on teachers at all .
" This is a way to extort grades from teachers , " he said .
" Why should it just be teachers ?
Why not judges ?
Why not journalists ? " he said .
And Curzon-Brown admits that he 's been frustrated with the lack of responses from other teachers .
" They 're afraid to speak up , " he said . "
A lot of them are in denial .
They think if they bury their heads in the sand , it 's not there . "




Online Learning 's Long Curve

You are a student in class .
You have already logged on to your computer and are watching a PowerPoint presentation by your teacher .
Have a question ?
Click a button to " raise your hand . "
This is n't a typical classroom because less than one percent of the U.S. population has taken an online course , according to an estimate by market research company IDC .
But mass virtual learning , or " distance learning , " is far from e-decades away .
In the last year alone a rash of startups providing virtual classrooms have emerged on the serious money pumped in by venture capitalists .
Financial manager and advisor Merrill Lynch , which has invested money in such e-learning sites as notHarvard.com , projects the e-learning space will be worth $ 25.3 billion in 2003 .
This represents a 63 percent increase per year , from last year 's estimate of $ 3.6 billion .
However , disappointment looms for people seeking knowledge online in , say , philosophy or American history .
The future of distance-learning , it appears , will be dominated by employer-paid technology courses .
That revenue model is the only lucrative one today in the e-learning world .
" There is very little consumer spending on the market , " said Cushing Anderson , program manager for learning services at IDC . "
It 's hard to make individual sales when the value of one consumer is not so great . "
The estimated corporate space of online learning was worth $ 1.1 billion last year , according to IDC research .
Revenues for e-learning sites that offer services to other businesses - and not classes directly to consumers - will skyrocket to $ 11.4 billion by 2003 , Cushing said .
One prominent e-learning site struggled with this lesson and recently altered its business model .
After launching in September 1999 and offering consumers online courses like The History of Sex and Astrology 101 , Hungry Minds shifted to offering more courses in professional development .
It altered its business-to-consumer model for a business-to-business one by syndicating its " experts " or teachers to other companies .
Hungry Minds senior vice president of business development and sales Gary Millrood said consumers were not willing to pay for online recreational courses .
" We shifted more into professional development and training , " Millrood said . "
There 's more demand there . "
But the company faces stiff competition .
Other sites like notHarvard.com are better funded and already offer an array of courses from C++ to film .
NotHarvard.com has always operated with a B2B model and offers other companies content , teachers , and software necessary for cyber-teaching .
The site recently closed a second round of venture capital funding of $ 26 million and has aligned itself with key players in the education market like Barnes & Noble .
" validates our business model being B2B , " notHarvard.com CEO Judy Bitterli said . "
The funding
A B2C model is expensive to acquire customers .
A B2B model takes advantage of an already present customer base . "
Millrood said HungryMinds.com is backed by the $ 18 million it received in angel funding in May 1999 , and he would not say whether the company is poised to receive additional money .
Venture capitalists are enthusiastically investing in e-learning because there is a potential return from addressing high-tech companies ' need to train and obtain employees , said Jeanne Metzger , director of marketing for the National Venture Capital Association .
However , they are weary of funding e-learning sites that are solely based on content and an advertising revenue model , Metzger said .
Most e-learning companies have already keyed in on the market 's need to train workers .
Knowledge Planet opened shop in January and has already provided the infrastructure for companies like Chevron , Hershey , Prudential , and Fidelity to train their employees online .
KnowledgePlanet.com , which is backed by $ 30 million in venture funding , provides both content and technology .
Zvi Frank , president and cofounder of another e-learning site called InterWise.com , said the company has offices all over the world including Israel , Switzerland , and the United States .
The company , which two weeks ago closed $ 30 million in funding from sources like JP Morgan and SAP , sells software and hosting services so that businesses can school their employees online .
Companies are cutting costs by not having to accommodate employees in outside training sites , Frank said .
" This is less expensive than a physical class , " Frank said . "
A virtual class is eliminating hotels and flights and time away from the job . "




NBCi Tanks on Restructuring News

Shares of NBC Internet Inc. , the Web-based companion company to the NBC television network , slumped in early trading on Tuesday following news of a corporate restructuring , a company warning about low sales and earnings , and a Wall Street downgrade .
NBCI stock was down $ 9.19 to a new low of $ 15.44 in the first hour of trading on the Nasdaq .
Its 52-week high is $ 106.13 .
Goldman Sachs analyst Tonia Pankopf said the investment firm had cut its rating on NBCI shares to " market outperformer " from " trading buy . "
Late Monday , the San Francisco-based company unveiled a restructuring plan under which all of NBC Internet 's Web sites and products , including Snap.com , Xoom.com and VideoSeeker , will be combined under a single banner , NBCi.com .
The new , comprehensive Web site will debut this fall .
The restructuring , coupled with costs of recent acquisitions and low revenues due to a soft advertising market from dot-com companies , will result in NBC Internet reporting lower-than-expected revenues and earnings for the second quarter and the remainder of the year , the company said .
Analysts ' consensus earnings estimate is a net loss of 70 cents a share for the second quarter and a net loss of $ 2.84 a share for the full year , according to First Call/Thomson Financial .
NBC Internet said it has about $ 700 million in cash and future NBC TV promotional credits to help it move forward , and it intends to tighten its cost structure in line with revised revenue and earnings estimates .
The company said it expects to become profitable in 2002 , after accounting for non-cash expenses .
NBC Internet is about 47 percent owned by NBC , a wholly owned unit of General Electric Co.




Music Bigwigs : Stop Napster Now

SAN FRANCISCO -- The record industry sought an injunction against Napster.com on Monday , saying it was depressing sales of compact discs near college campuses .
The motion for a preliminary injunction was filed Monday in U.S. District Court in San Francisco by the Recording Industry Association of America and the National Music Publishers ' Association .
The groups argued in their court filings that Napster Inc. , a closely held song-swap software company , was responsible for widespread copyright infringements and industry harm .
They cited a study by the Field Research Corp. comprised of 2,555 college students who are Internet users , which showed a direct correlation between Napster use and decreased CD sales .
" of Napster users ... described the nature of its impact on their music purchases in a way which ... explicitly indicated or suggested that Napster displaces CD sales , " said the Field study .
Nearly half
Napster officials were not immediately available for comment .
The RIAA filed suit against San Mateo , California-based Napster in December , alleging it was a haven for online music piracy .
According to statistical analyses filed with the court , nearly every Napster user sampled had engaged in some form of copyright infringement while using Napster services .
The groups asked the court to " enjoin Napster 's facilitation of music piracy " because the music industry would likely succeed on its claims of " contributory and vicarious copyright infringement , " and because " Napster is causing irreparable harm to plaintiffs and the entire music industry . "
The groups presented evidence demonstrating what they described as " ongoing harm to CD sales , harm to the emerging legitimate market for downloading music , and a devaluing of music , as Napster teaches a generation of music consumers that artists do not deserve to be paid for their work , and their creative efforts are free for the taking . "
" This is not just about online versus offline , " said Hilary Rosen , president and CEO of the RIAA . "
Most in the online business community recognize that what Napster is doing threatens legitimate e-commerce models -- and is legally and morally wrong . "
people
Edward Murphy , president of the Music Publishers , agreed , saying , " We hope the court will act to preserve the rights of songwriters and music publishers , who are being deprived of compensation for their works , and the Internet businesses that have acted responsibly in respecting the creators of music and taken licenses accordingly . "
MP3.com Inc. CEO and Chairman Michael Robertson submitted a declaration in support of the motion , stating that file-sharing services like Napster did nothing to promote emerging artists and that MP3.com had not authorized Napster to distribute the music of MP3.com artists .




Does P2P Fit Consumers ' Bill ?

There 's big money in small transactions .
At least that 's the hope of a swarm of new services that give Net-goers a chance to pay each other by email .
Already , millions of wired auctioneers of Beanie Babies , card tables , and EverQuest characters are using X.com 's PayPal service and other money-transfer systems to get paid without waiting for a check to clear .
" I am small-time , just selling stuff around the house and maybe some garage sale items .
is nice because I am able to get items to people faster , and every so often have PayPal send me those payments to stuff in the bank , " emails one online auctioneer , Glenn McGloughlin . "
PayPal
It is great because I am not in business for online auctions , but I 'm able to act like one of the big boys by accepting credit card payments . "
The tchotchke transfers have also helped make X.com the Web 's leading financial site , with more than 2 million weekly unique visitors -- more than double the traffic of E-Trade , the nearest competitor .
As many as 20,000 new users are signing up daily .
More than $ 4 million passes through its system every day .
And the company just secured $ 100 million in funding from Nokia Ventures , Goldman Sachs , and others .
So it 's no wonder that dozens of companies are tripping over themselves to get into the person-to-person , or " P2P " payment race .
Western Union is the latest contestant in a derby that includes Bank One 's e-money mail , as well as start-ups like eCount and ProPay.com .
Ecommony and others hope to persuade sites to handle their P2P infrastructure .
EBay itself has even teamed up with Wells Fargo Bank to offer a PayPal alternative , Billpoint .
For the moment , these companies are mostly focused on the auction market that PayPal pioneered .
But these companies are looking to leverage P2P auction traction into the broader spectrum of small payments -- anteing up in the office pool , sending money to the kid in college , paying for a share in a summer house on the beach .
X.com CEO Elon Musk says it 's already made the jump , with two-thirds of his payments now in the mainstream market .
Some experts are n't so sure . "
Family and friends are seen as the next big area , but there 's no evidence of action , yet , " says James Van Dyke , who covers the P2P market for Net researcher Jupiter Communications .
No matter who 's involved , the P2P services all work in essentially the same way . "
There 's not a lot of difference between what 's on the networks , " Musk admits .




Internet Satellites Going Cheap

A would-be space entrepreneur is proposing an ambitious network of Internet satellites made from off-the-shelf Macintoshes and a variation of Apple 's Airport technology .
Dennis Wingo , founder and CEO of SkyCorp , a startup based in Hunstville , Alabama , is hoping to launch a constellation of satellites for accessing the Internet at high speed from almost anywhere on the globe .
If it gets off the ground , Wingos ' network would rival systems planned by giant corporations like Hughes and Teledesic -- but at a fraction of the cost .
With help from NASA , Wingo plans to build 544 orbiting Web servers from Apple 's G4 Power Macintosh computers and a souped-up version of the company 's Airport wireless networking technology .
Swooping over the globe in low-Earth orbit , the satellites would be accessible from cell phones , computers fitted with inexpensive PC cards , or clip-on wireless modems for devices like Palm 's handhelds .
As well as using off-the-shelf technology , Wingo hopes to save large sums of money by having the satellites flown into space in pieces and assembled by space station crews -- the satellites would not have to withstand the rigors of a space launch .
Wingo has applied for a patent for his " gossamer " satellite designs , which use inexpensive , lightweight materials and , he estimates , would save between 70 and 90 percent of the cost of standard fare .
" All satellites are designed for an environment they only see for 12 minutes , " he said . "
That 's a tremendous amount of over-engineering just to get something into space .
" You can n't shake something to pieces that 's already in pieces , " he added .
The satellites ' pieces would be assembled in about 20 minutes by astronauts on the International Space Station or cosmonauts on Mir , and then literally thrown into space from a dock or cargo bay before being guided to their final orbit by on-board thrusters .
Wingo said SkyCorp is in talks with NASA to put a prototype satellite into orbit next year .
According to Wingo , SkyCorp has a " memorandum of understanding " with NASA , which he described as NASA-ese for an agreement to work together .
Dr. Lance Bush at NASA 's Washington headquarters confirmed that the space agency is in talks with SkyCorp but declined to elaborate , saying the negotiations were proprietary .
If NASA launches Wingo 's prototype , the satellite will become the world 's first orbiting Web server , covering 90 percent of the Earth 's surface , Wingo said .
The satellite will be in touch with any spot on the planet for only 40 minutes to an hour every 24 hours .
However , it will be able to receive and store data for download later to a head-end connected to the terrestrial Internet , Wingo said .
The satellite will transmit and receive data at broadband speeds using a more powerful variation of Apple 's Airport , which is based on the IEEE 802.11 standard for wireless Ethernet local area networks .
As SkyCorp adds more satellites to the network , the ability to hook up to it will become more constant , he said .




Trappin ' Your Cheatin ' Heart

Mike had only been married four years when he started to become suspicious that his wife was up to no good on the Internet .
" She was on the computer all the time , until 2 or 3 a.m.
When I asked her what she was doing , she 'd just flip out , " he said .
Mike suspected his wife was up to more than the simple " research " she insisted she was doing on the couple 's home computer .
So when his co-worker started a business called Infidelitybusters.com to catch cyber-cheaters , Mike took a deep breath and signed up .
Fifty bucks and less than a month later , Infidelitybusters.com confirmed his worst fears : His wife had responded enthusiastically to chat-room propositions from the company 's infidelity buster , a 25-year-old woman posing as a cyber-suave Casanova .
Even though the " affair " did n't take place in the physical world , Mike was convinced his wife had been unfaithful to him .
" I told her it was over , " said Mike . "
She tried to say it was only the computer , so it did n't matter . "
Mike and his wife are now divorced , and Infidelitybusters.com has put one more cyber-cheater out of commission .
There are no hard statistics on extra-marital affairs occurring online , but Elizabeth Field , a 25-year-old finance manager at a Chicago car dealership who launched Infidelitybusters.com from her bedroom earlier this month , said she knows increasing numbers of people who have been burned by this kind of cheating .
" To me , it 's a sign of the times ...
I do n't agree with at all , " said Field .
cyber-cheating
Of course , it does n't hurt that she can make some money while catching the bad guys in the act .
or gals
But she 's not the first person to make a dime from people 's predilections for online peccadilloes .
An enterprising British company recently launched its Alibi Agency , an Internet-based agency that arranges alibis for people willing to pay for them .
" With the pressures of modern life many of us have occasion to stray from our long-term partners and dally with a brief sexual or emotional relationship with a third party .
...
With modern communications , and media , it has become increasingly difficult to be able to carry on such a temporary dalliance , without risk of detection , " the agency 's Web site explains .
A simple call to the Alibi Agency will score the dallier a suitable alibi , which varies in price according to its complexity .
Faking a doctor 's appointment would run about $ 25 , while a creating fictitious business could cost thousands .
Infidelitybusters.com , the antithesis of the Alibi Agency , is a site that was just waiting to be conceived .
Its premise is simple -- as long as the suspected cheater uses AOL , all that 's needed is a screen name and a simple profile , including hobbies , race , and age .
" little things , so I can create my profile to match theirs , " explained Field .
It 's just
Once she 's got the info , Field goes online and attempts to lure the suspected cheater into a compromising position .
" I 'll Instant Message the person with a pick-up line like , ' Hey , nice profile .
' " Field said .
If the suspect bites , Field will push further and further until she gets her target to agree to a meeting .
That 's when she presents her client with the evidence she 's amassed .
Oftentimes , as in Mike 's case , the client is n't really surprised when he or she gets the bad news .
" I knew , " he said , " but I did n't know .
You know ?
You know , but you want proof .
It gives you closure . "




They Love Microsoft in Asia

SEOUL -- Fueled by an Internet boom , Microsoft 's sales in Asia are set to grow by 30 percent this year , the president of Microsoft Asia said on Wednesday .
Pieter Knook said brisk sales of personal computers , PC servers , mobile phones , and other electronic gadgets meant Asia had now become the fastest-growing market for the U.S. software giant .
South Korea and China were stellar performers , while Japan and India were also strong , he said .
" There is n't a weak spot in our business now , which is fantastic , " Knook told Reuters in an interview .
" We 'll grow in excess of 30 percent this year . "
Knook attributed the surge to several factors : a search for efficiencies by companies jolted by the 1997-1998 financial crisis , global competition in Japan and elsewhere , and consumers eager to rush out and buy the latest electronic wizardry .
The financial crisis , he said , gave Asian countries time to invest in technology training .
" So when growth restarted , boy did it really start .
We 've had boom here for the last two or three years , " he said .
" There 's been an incredible impetus for people to say ' we 've got to re-evaluate to see if we 're being as efficient as we should be .
' "
Knook said Microsoft would achieve revenues of more than $ 2 billion this year in Japan , which accounted for about 75 percent of total Asian business .
He declined to give profit details .
Asians were embracing new technologies even more enthusiastically than many Europeans , he said .
In Korea and Taiwan , for instance , Internet and wireless penetration was higher than in the developed markets of Western Europe .
There were more PCs in homes in South Korea , which has a population of 47 million , than in France or Germany .
Singapore and Hong Kong consumers were also avid buyers of new gadgets and devices .
" In some senses Asia , you could argue , has a greater propensity to adopt these types of new technologies than , say , Europe , " Knook said .
" There is that thirst for technology . "
While established businesses in other parts of the world might expand their computing ability by installing more mainframes , many Asian companies were skipping that technology altogether and moving straight to PCs .
About 80 percent of PCs globally use Microsoft operating systems .
" People are saying , ' Why install a mainframe ?
' " he said .
The growing Asian view was that PCs were " far more effective and far cheaper . "
The challenge posed by rapid growth in information technologies in Asia was that " it puts enormous strains on the service capacity side of the business , " Knook said .
" There are n't enough qualified people to meet all of the demands , " he said .
" It is a bottleneck -- and especially in developing countries . "
Among other factors holding back even faster growth was software piracy , a particular problem in China where annual PC sales of six million were about half those of Japan , but where revenues were only 1/30 th or 1/40 th the size .
Piracy accounted for the difference , Knook said .
" China has all the right laws in place , the issue is enforcement , " he said .
The problem was less severe in India where huge software exports and the world 's largest film industry meant intellectual property protection was seen as a national good , not just good for foreign multinationals .




Hotmail Cold In Some Parts

Many users of Microsoft 's free Hotmail service in the United States and Canada have been unable to access their accounts for more than a week .
A Hotmail spokeswoman who requested anonymity said one of the service 's servers is the cause of the problem , and that it 's affected less than half of 1 percent of Hotmail 's 66 million users .
" There really is n't much more that they can tell you other than we have isolated one server that is having problems and are working as quickly as possible to get it back up and running , " another Hotmail spokeswoman said . "
We do not anticipate any data loss , and will let you know when users are able to log in to the server again . "
Hotmail 's customer service hotline was busy all day Tuesday .
And users who have been unable to access their accounts for the last eight days are still waiting to hear when they will able get their email .
For now , they get this error message when they type in their user name and password : " This delay does not affect the entire site or relate specifically to your account , but the machine that holds your account information is temporarily unavailable .
We do not expect this delay to last much longer , so please continue to check our site for your account status . "
Cynthia Servetnick , a Hotmail user and campus planner at University of California at Berkeley , said a Microsoft customer service representative named " Bazil " sent her an email message on an alternate account explaining the problem .
" Accommodating a tremendous increase in MSN Hotmail usage required us to take the machine which hosts your email account offline for network improvements , " the message said . "
We try to do these upgrades in the early morning hours , so that your service is n't interrupted while we upgrade our system .
" Unfortunately , in this case , the job took longer than usual to complete .
This is an extremely rare occurrence and your account should now be working as you have come to expect . "
Servetnick still waits .
But many users are short on patience .
Sean McCormick , a support technician and software trainer at Red Deer College in Alberta , Canada said he and two coworkers were unable to access their accounts for a week .
McCormick , who says he receives about 67 emails a day on the account , had to open a mail.com account instead .
One of his co-workers is still waiting to hear from a Hotmail technician or customer service representative .
" I can n't afford to have my email down , " McCormick said . "
I had to stop relying on the email . "
Servetnick said it is frustrating not having a contact person or website to turn to for information about the problems with Hotmail 's email services .
Another user echoed Servetnick 's complaints .
" I am very upset about what is going on , " said Henrique de Souza . "
Even though the service is free , they should respect their customers . "
This is n't the only time the reliability of Hotmail services been in question .
Last August , Hotmail accounts were shut down for seven hours when it became known that anyone could access a Hotmail account by simply typing in a user name .
Microsoft responded with an apology to Hotmail users .
" In light of the inconvenience that such an action can cause users , this is not something that we take lightly but felt that , given Microsoft 's commitment to protecting people 's private data and information , it was the appropriate course of action , " the company said .




Look Ma , No Tape

AOL is partnering with TiVo to provide video-on-demand , company representatives announced Wednesday .
" We will have the potential of delivering a far richer , more entertaining TV experience , " said TiVo executive Mike Ramsay .
Under a three-year strategic partnership , AOL will invest $ 200 million in TiVo to build AOLTV-branded set-top boxes .
AOLTV subscribers will be able to use TiVos Personal TV Service , which digitally records television shows without videotape , allowing users to watch " what they want , when they want to watch it , " a company spokesman said .
Users will be able to pause , slow-motion , or instantly replay live television .
TiVos service will also recommend shows that match consumers interests .
The companies said the AOLTV set-top boxes could be available in early 2001 .
In a separate announcement , Time Warner said they struck a deal with Sea Change International to develop Time Warners own video-on-demand effort .
Time Warner Cable said it will use Sea Changes Interactive Television System , which can store hundreds of full-length movies at cable operators facilities .
In comparison , the TiVo boxes have a more limited capacity , but the boxes reside with the users .
- - -
The wary , wary month of May : Charles Schwab , the leading U.S. discount and Internet brokerage , said Wednesday its customers put in far fewer stock trades in May , a sign investors cooled off due to the slumping market .
Schwab , which has more than 7 million brokerage accounts , said it processed 198,400 stock trades a day in May , down 37 percent from 317,300 a day in April .
It was the second month in a row that Schwab reported declining trading volumes , after it processed a record of about 345,000 trades a day in March .
But customers kept putting money into their brokerage accounts , Schwab said .
The company reported it attracted $ 9.6 billion in new customer assets in May , up 22 percent from April 's net new inflows of $ 7.9 billion .
- - -
Nortel buys EPiCON : Nortel Networks , the second-largest network equipment supplier in the world , said Wednesday that it will buy EPiCON , a Massachusetts firm that makes software for the burgeoning application-service-provider market .
EPiCON makes software that lets application service providers , companies that rent software applications to businesses over the Internet , send out and manage software at thousands of desktops from a central server , Nortel said .
EPiCON 's software would become part of Nortel 's newly launched open platform for ASPs , Nortel said .
Nortel said consulting firm Gartner Group has forecast that the ASP market will expand to $ 23 billion in 2003 from about $ 900 million in 1998 .
EPiCON was founded in 1997 and has 60 employees .
- - -
DT builds cash reserves : Deutsche Telekom confirmed plans Wednesday to sell $ 8 billion of bonds , to fill what analysts said was a war chest to fund third-generation mobile phone licences and a possible acquisition .
Europe 's second-largest telecom said it planned to issue bonds in dollars , euros , sterling , and yen in the near future , while issuing conditions remain favorable .
Such a deal would be among the largest corporate transactions ever sold .
Deutsche Telekom said proceeds from the deal would be used for general corporate purposes .
But bankers in London identified the escalating cost of third-generation UMTS mobile phone licences - the bidding for which gets underway in Germany on July 31 -- as the driving force behind the plan .
- - -
SAP invests in Commerce One : SAP , a German business-management software maker , said Wednesday it would take a $ 250 million stake in software group Commerce One .
SAP did not say what percentage this stake represented .
It is taking the stake as part of a joint agreement with Commerce One to supply e-business marketplace solutions and e-business applications , SAP said .
Reuters contributed to this report .




MS Appeals Process Set in Motion

WASHINGTON -- It helps to have friends in high places .
When an appeals court this week agreed to hear Microsoft 's antitrust case , the judges signaled they thought it was important enough to take immediately .
The procedure bypasses the usual three-judge panel and allows the full appeals court , minus a few judges who have recused themselves , to act with dispatch .
It 's a victory , however fleeting , for Microsoft .
The company opposes sending the case directly to the Supreme Court , which is now somewhat less likely to intervene .
In an unusual order , the appeals court said on Tuesday " in view of its exceptional importance , " they could begin setting a schedule for briefing and oral arguments straightaway .
The court seemed to be telling the Supreme Court , its neighbor a few blocks away on Constitution Avenue , that it will act so quickly there 's no reason for the justices to intervene .
A federal law allows the Supreme Court to take antitrust cases directly in some circumstances .
For that to happen , U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson must certify the case as important enough to warrant the direct appeal .
He 's expected to do that this week , and perhaps as early as Wednesday .
The Justice Department and the state attorneys general have argued for sending the case directly to the high court , claiming that Microsoft has such an industry-controlling monopoly that a breakup can n't wait .
Last week , Jackson signed the Justice Department 's request for a two-way split of Microsoft , and day-to-day controls on its business practices until the breakup takes effect .
Microsoft filed a brief motion on June 7 asking Jackson to stay his breakup-and-regulation order .
On Tuesday , Jackson replied with an order saying " consideration of a stay pending appeal is premature in that no notice of appeal has yet been filed . "
That 's when it got nasty .
That was enough for Microsoft to say , in effect : Jackson is being so darned unhelpful that we 're going to bypass him and go upstairs to the appeals court .
In a related case , a three-judge appeals panel has reversed Jackson 's rulings against Microsoft .
Microsoft lawyers immediately filed a 105 KB document they appear to have had ready for a while .
The strongly-worded appeal says Jackson is guilty of " serious substantive and procedural errors that infected virtually every aspect of the proceedings . "
In stark terms , it says that unless the appeals court acts within the next three months , Microsoft may not be able to release new products such as Windows Millennium and will have to " redesign " all of its existing operating systems to comply with Jackson 's order .
One major theme underlying this first glimpse at Microsoft 's appeals strategy is that Jackson is so biased against the defense he did n't give Microsoft a fair trial .
For example , the company says that Jackson 's uncritical acceptance of the DOJ 's breakup request is " an astounding abdication of the judicial function . "
Microsoft also takes aim at Jackson 's odd habit of chatting with reporters from The New York Times , The Wall Street Journal , and the Washington Post during the trial -- and telling them his views on Microsoft . "
I am not aware of any case authority that says I have to give them any due process at all .
The case is over .
They lost , " Jackson told the Times , Microsoft stesses in its brief .
" The government 's breakup and regulate plan will impose huge costs and burdens on Microsoft and our customers almost immediately .
We 're asking the courts to stay this judgment so that the appeal can go forward quickly without unnecessary disruption to the company , to consumers , and to the high-tech economy , " said Microsoft vice president William Neukom in a statement .




Bluetooth 's Promises , Hurdles

In a demonstration they hope heralds the coming of a completely wireless world , representatives of nearly 1,000 technology companies are meeting this week in Monaco to unveil their latest bluetooth capabilities .
Bluetooth , developed by Nokia , Ericsson , and Intel , is a low-cost , shortwave radio link that allows computers and wireless devices to interact .
Although telecommunications analysts say it will take years before bluetooth replaces wireless interface cards and modems as the standard , the companies convening in Monte Carlo this week were eager to show what bluetooth devices can do .
Retrieving email in remote areas and synchronizing data are two key attributes , bluetooth boosters say .
" It allows devices to talk to each other and the Internet , " said Linda Billhymer , director of marketing for Motorola 's personal networks group . "
For example , you could pull up a phone number on your organizer and email that to your cell phone . "
On Monday , Motorola introduced a car kit or cordless headset that allows users to transfer calls from cellular phones to car phones .
The company , which worked with IBM and Toshiba on the project , also demonstrated a modem card for personal computers that can exchange files and synchronize data between PCs and handheld devices .
Motorola is one of 1,600 members of the Bluetooth Special Interest Group , the organization behind the Bluetooth Congress in Monaco .
The congress , which ends June 16 , is the largest exhibition of bluetooth companies and products in the world .
As more wireless devices are adopted , bluetooth is expected to become ubiquitous because of its almost instant Internet connection and $ 5 price tag .
The sale of bluetooth silicon is expected to reach $ 3.4 billion , according to financial manager and adviser Merrill Lynch .
The Bluetooth Special Interest Group estimates that by the end of 2001 , bluetooth wireless technology will be a standard feature in more than 100 million mobile phones .
" It 's a big trend , " said Simon Gawne , vice president for marketing and business development at wireless Internet service-products manufacturer Red-M . "
The range of applications is enormous .
If you are in an airline lounge , information on a flight could be sent to my mobile phone . "
Red-M plans on working with Ericsson to create bluetooth technology for wireless application protocol phones .
The capability of the new technology was on display in Monte Carlo .
Bluetooth-enabled WAP phones will allow users to check schedules , synchronize data , and access the Intranet at a local calling rate , as well as letting users within the same building communicate with each other , Gawne said .
However , do n't expect people to access the Internet with bluetooth devices anytime soon , said Amanda McCarthy , a telecommunications analyst for Forrester Research .
While McCarthy said she 's seen some bluetooth devices that are " pretty darn interesting , " she also believes the prices must drop before they are universally adopted .
Additionally , some of the logistics of how bluetooth boxes will be set up must be ironed out , she said .
For example , a WAP phone can not retrieve flight data unless the airport installs enough boxes on the walls to support bluetooth 's signals .
Companies are predicting that it is these " piconet " boxes that will someday allow for soda machines to communicate with people 's mobile phones and summon the user by name on a hot day .
" I do n't think too much will happen in 18 months , " McCarthy said . "
Though I can n't wait for this stuff to make it .
I hate cords . "




Nasdaq Japan : Wait and See

TOKYO -- In Japan 's answer to Silicon Valley -- a collection of cramped buildings in a corner of Tokyo 's trendy Shibuya district known as " Bit Valley " -- the imminent arrival of Nasdaq Japan is met with guarded optimism .
" It 's good to see exchanges competing with each other , which enables startups to select the best market for their IPOs , " said Taiga Matsuyama , a 25-year-old director of the Bit Valley Association , a body set up last year to back Web startups .
Nasdaq Japan -- set to open its doors next Monday -- is targeting people like Matsuyama and the 6,000 members in his organization , hoping the new exchange will sparkle with the best and brightest in Japan 's flowering Internet industry .
But Matsuyama stresses there are options for high-tech entrepreneurs other than Nasdaq Japan , and loyalties will follow exchanges that best reflect advances in the fast-changing industry and offer the most attractive environment .
" It 's wrong to assert firms will forever stay in the market they initially listed on .
They can move to another ... which means exchanges must make tireless efforts to make them more attractive , " he said .
Matsuyama said it is hard to pick the best among the three domestic markets for startups : Nasdaq Japan , the Tokyo Stock Exchange 's Mothers market launched last December , or the traditional over-the-counter market .
" We need to take some more time to make an assessment , " he said .
" Competition , however , will not be limited to the three .
...
With startup activities becoming more global and borderless , some may also think of the U.S. Nasdaq for their IPOs . "
Another option for raising funds is mergers and acquisitions , an attractive choice for ventures fearing the treacherous waters of the stock market , where some core Japanese tech stocks have lost 80 or 90 percent in value since February .
Matsuyama said a highly valued startup could take over another dot-com firm via a share swap , while big blue-chip firms could take over dot-com firms to strengthen weak areas .
It is even possible for reverse takeovers , with a dot com snapping up a conventional company , he said .
Members of the Bit Valley Association include entrepreneurs from Shibuya 's " Bit Valley , " along with blue-chip corporate executives , venture capitalists , and university students .
The group became known for its monthly " bit style " events that attracted thousands of devotees to a cramped nightclub near central Tokyo .
The event , seen as a symbol of Japan 's dot-com boom , was discontinued because it became too big and unwieldy .
But a savaging in shares of core Internet stocks such as Softbank and Hikari Tsushin since February has also robbed the industry of some of its momentum , putting the pricey valuations of some Web startups under scrutiny .
Seven out of 10 startups listed on Japan 's Mothers market are now trading below their IPO prices , forcing local Internet startups to do far more to prove their true value .
Matsuyama played down the impact on startups of the slide in shares of Hikari and Softbank , both of which are known for their active investment in Web startups .
He said the fall mainly hit the relatively small number of startups already listed .
" Unless a startup has actual business transactions with Hikari , they would not be hurt by the firm 's troubles , " he said .
" Even if Hikari went under , that would only mean its stake in the startup will move to another investor .
I think their capital ties must be viewed separately from Japan 's traditional ' keiretsu ' ties , " he said .
Matsuyama also dismissed criticism that Japanese Web startups were becoming the target of a money game by drawing far more funds than they needed .
" Money is not our target .
What we want to do is to contribute to society in an area we are good at , " he said , noting that Japan 's Web startups are still in their infancy .
" Startups here are in a learning period .
It 's not right to assert that we are already head-to-head since big gaps still remain in our Internet infrastructures . "
with U.S. rivals




U.S. Predicts GM Popularity

HONG KONG - New types of genetically modified foods will win popular acceptance when consumers see more of their direct benefits , U.S. Department of Agriculture officials said after a wide-ranging trip in Asia .
But the officials , who spoke on condition that their names not be used , declined in a briefing this week to project future demand for U.S. biotech crops like soybeans , corn , and cotton .
" It is hard to make any conclusions right now because we are only seeing the tip of the iceberg in terms of the types of products that we can expect to see through the use of this technology , " a USDA official said . "
I would say that the market is still pretty fluid . "
Besides Hong Kong , the officials visited South Korea , Taiwan , and the Philippines to exchange information with food and agriculture regulators in those countries .
In genetically modified foods , a gene from one organism is typically transferred into another to improve a trait , such as resistance to pests or disease .
GM foods have encountered opposition from the public in South Korea and Japan , but nothing like that seen in Europe , where opponents to the technology say it can have detrimental effects on health and the environment .
Five years ago field testing of GM products focused on agronomic traits modified for pesticide and herbicide tolerance , but the benefits to consumers were not easily appreciated .
New , value-added products , such as " golden rice , " will offer nutritional enhancements , the officials said .
Golden rice has been genetically altered to provide more iron and vitamin A than other types of rice .
" If we look at the future , we may see that there is easier acceptance .
There will be a lot more increased inputs in the products , " an official said .
These include changing the amino acid content in potatoes with higher solids so that when they are fried they do n't take up as much of the fat .
Another example is soybeans that have a different oil composition intended to be healthier for consumers .
All countries on the tour are large markets for U.S. agricultural products and all had government departments and research agencies doing research on genetically modified foods .
" For countries which have an active agriculture sector , this will be a technology that will be important for them , " an official said .
The International Rice Research Institute , based in the Philippines , was conducting field tests on new strains of GM rice .
Other researchers there were studying a new type of virus-resistant papaya .
In Taiwan , GM agriculture research was focused on aquaculture .
China was not on the group 's itinerary , but the officials said there was no evidence at this point that China was opposed to GM products .
The USDA tour was not aimed at promoting or advocating GM foods , officials stressed . "
We are not here as advocates of the technology .
You could say we are agnostic towards the technology , " an official said .




Napster 's Cousins Go Legit

To better its odds at fending off copyright lawsuits , Napster is searching for noninfringing uses of its technology .
Two other file-trading applications seeking to avoid similar legal woes have gone legit -- sort of .
Both the open-source Gnutella network and Michael Ovitz-backed Scour Exchange got a boost on Wednesday when movie and animation content providers released their work on their file-trading networks .
The move could offer Napster a bit of help as well .
That 's because in a 1983 case involving Betamax , a judge ruled that the sale of copying equipment is n't illegal if there are other noninfringing uses for the technology -- which is why copy machines and cassette tape recorders are not illegal , said copyright lawyer Whitney Broussard .
Another component of the ruling is that some copyright holders supported the new technology .
" I know that Napster knows this , " Broussard said . "
There are a lot of other noninfringing uses out there and Napster is going to have a pretty good argument because there are a lot of free MP3s out there available for trading . "
Other copyright holders have supported file-trading technologies , including Courtney Love and Limp Bizkit .
Now two other media companies can be added to that list .
Digital animation and video site Romp.com will release selected , licensed content on Scour Exchange , and movie-distribution company Sightsound.com released a dozen movie titles , including the Internet feature film Quantum Project , on the Gnutella network .
" We believe in the Internet 's boundless potential for media distribution as much as we do in its potential for artistic freedom and openness , " said Bruce Forman , co-founder of Romp.com , in a statement .
" We 're excited to ... use Scour Exchange as a cutting-edge outlet for our viewers to enjoy and share our programming . "
Scour Exchange has been licensing content from partners for some time .
In April , Dimension Films gave Internet rights to the network to premier the Scary Movie trailer , which attracted 30,000 downloads in less than two weeks .
While licensed content will now be accessible over the file-trading networks , it will n't all come free .
But this will test the popular theory that consumers will purchase high-quality , easily accessible content on the Internet .
" A new generation of computer users has embraced file-sharing software to obtain their entertainment and now they have legally available movies , " said Sightsound.com CEO Scott Sander in a written statement . "
File-sharing does n't have to mean file-stealing . "
Sightsound.com , which will distribute 12 Miramax films , released them as encrypted movie files .
Once someone downloads the file , they must either pay to rent or purchase a license to view the movie .
Executives were not available to comment on the announcement because the company is in a pre-IPO quiet period .




Kodak Sitting Pretty With Digital

NEW YORK -- Eastman Kodak Co. , the photography giant that has been trying to persuade Wall Street that its digital business makes its shares worthy of higher " new economy " valuation , said Wednesday it sees digital products accounting for nearly half its revenues by 2005 .
The Rochester , New York , company also cheered up Wall Street by stepping up its share buyback plan and reaffirming its revenue and profit expectations for the second quarter .
Its second-quarter revenues are on track to achieve full-year growth of 6 percent to 7 percent and it remains comfortable with current profit expectations for the quarter and year , the company said .
" Kodak has done two very important things , " said Goldman Sachs analyst Jack Kelly said . "
First , it stepped up the pace of its share buyback .
And second , it tried to demonstrate a better path to profitability with more detail than they 've done in the past . "
Shares rose 2.3 percent , or 1-3/8 , to close at 60-1/8 , on a day in which the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.6 percent .
EK
Kodak also said it would accelerate its stock buyback plan and would repurchase between $ 1 billion and $ 1.2 billion in stock this year .
The company said it would start increasing its purchase of its own stock to between $ 9 and $ 10 million a day , from it current daily average of about $ 1 million .
At Wednesday 's closing price , Kodak shares had rebounded from a 52-week low of 53-3/16 hit on May 9 .
But they remain well shy of their year high of 78-1/4 .
Their price/earnings ratio , or ratio of stock price and earnings per share , is at 12.6 , a far cry below the ratios of such new economy standouts as Cisco Systems or even slumping Microsoft .
CSCO
MSFT
Company president and chief executive Daniel Carp said at a press conference that by 2005 , Kodak expects revenues to jump nearly 70 percent to $ 23.8 billion from $ 14.1 billion in 1999 .
Its digital portfolio is expected account for 45 percent of those revenues compared with 20 percent in 1999 .
He expects operating earnings to increase more that 75 percent to $ 4.4 billion from $ 2.5 billion in 1999 , with the digital portfolio accounting for 27 percent of those earnings in 2005 , up from 1 percent .
Carp said he expected the digital business to earn $ 370 million in 2002 compared with $ 20 million in 1999 , based on 21 percent annual revenue growth .
Most of the growth is expected to come from the commercial sector , which includes health imaging and scanners , contributing $ 485 million in 2002 , up from $ 115 million in 1999 .
The consumer digital business , which includes digital cameras , its Picture CDs , printers and Internet services , is still expected to be a drag on earnings , Carp said , losing $ 115 million in 2002 from a loss of $ 95 million in 1999 .
He was encouraged , however , that the company was making headway in the cutthroat digital camera market , where its U.S. market share has grown to 25-26 percent from 16-17 percent in late January and expects to challenge Japan 's Sony Corp. for the No. 1 position .
He acknowledged that Kodak was still losing money in the digital camera business but expected to breakeven by 2002 .
The company 's bedrock film business has grown 8 percent so far this year with pricing remaining relatively flat , according to Robert Keegan , president of Kodak 's consumer imaging division .
" We see no reason why we should n't see 8 percent volume growth for the rest of the year .
" Pricing is harder to predict because of the competitive nature of the business , " he added .
Kokak is locked in a heated battle in the film business with Japan 's Fuji Photo Film Co Ltd.
The company has an approximate 40 percent market share globally in consumer color film and 50 percent in the professional color film business .
The company said it continues to expect second-quarter net earnings per share in the range of $ 1.60 to $ 1.70 .
Analysts polled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial now expect Kodak to earn $ 1.65 per share in the quarter , up 8.5 percent from the $ 1.52 it earned in the same period a year earlier .
Chief financial officer Robert Brust also reconfirmed the company 's expectations that full-year net earnings will be in the range of $ 5.50 to $ 5.80 per share .
Analysts in the First Call poll are forecasting a profit of $ 5.67 per share , up 12.7 percent from the $ 5.03 per share it earned in 1999 .
In a statement , Brust said higher revenues and improved earnings , combined with lower costs , reduced spending , and improved asset utilization , are expected to provide strong free cash flow this year and significantly enhanced cash flows over the next five years .




Visa , MC Nixed Smart Cards

NEW YORK -- Close ties between Visa and MasterCard deprived U.S. consumers of a new type of credit card , a government witness said on Wednesday during a trial of alleged collusion between the two top credit card networks .
MasterCard was poised to launch credit cards with embedded computer chips in the United States in the late-1980s but its bank owners refused to go ahead without Visa , John Elliott , a former MasterCard executive , testified in court .
So-called smart cards , widely used in some European countries , let people store personal financial data and money on the chip , unlike the magnetic stripe on the back of credit cards that enables merchants to authorize card purchases .
Visa and MasterCard are owned by major banks and together control more than 75 percent of U.S. credit card sales .
They say the cost of launching smart cards outweighed the returns , and demand for the card was weak .
The U.S. government filed suit against the networks in October 1998 , alleging their organizational set-up stops them from competing with each other .
Since U.S. banks often own both networks , they do not pit Visa against MasterCard , the government alleges .
The heated antitrust trial , which could reshape the U.S. credit card industry , started on Monday in a federal court in New York and is expected to last all summer .
Elliott , who worked at MasterCard from 1984-1989 as head of electronic services , indicated banks did not want MasterCard to take the lead over Visa by introducing the cards first .
Elliott is now an independent consultant doing work for card rival American Express Co. , which paid him $ 504,000 from 1998-1999 , partly to work on this case , the networks allege .
" U.S. members of MasterCard 's executive committee were dual members and indicated they wanted the program to go forward only if it went forward with Visa , " Elliott said .
smart card
MasterCard 's U.S. bank members , which also had stakes in Visa , expressed this view at a 1987 meeting after Elliott put forth smart card plans .
MasterCard would have had a two- or three-year lead over Visa if it had gone ahead , Elliott said .
The card networks counter they shelved plans for smart cards because it would have been too expensive .
The migration to smart cards from the existing magnetic stripe technology would have cost MasterCard $ 1.3 billion over five years , for a net loss of $ 200 million , MasterCard lawyer Ken Gallo argued on Wednesday in a cross-examination of the government witness .
With Visa , the card 's economic prospects would have been better , the networks argue .
Visa and MasterCard then hired consulting firm Booz , Allen & Hamilton Inc. to study the economic viability of launching smart cards in the United States .
Booz did not recommend the networks proceed in a 1988 report , documents showed .
Elliott also is biased because of his ties to American Express , which paid for his personal lawyer in this case , Visa and MasterCard have said .
" Today 's court developments further reveal the intense level of cooperation between the government and American Express , " Visa U.S.A. spokesman Kelly Presta said . "
The fact that Mr. Elliott , the government 's half-million dollar witness , was hired by American Express to work in collusion with the government to build their case drives this point home . "
Elliott was an executive at American Express from 1996 to 1998 .
A spokeswoman for the financial services company said it is standard practice to pay legal fees of a former executive called to trial on a matter related to his time at the company .
In a vocal public relations campaign leading up to the trial , Visa and MasterCard have claimed American Express instigated the trial by lobbying the Justice Department .
American Express could benefit if the government wins , because it would gain access to the bank networks now controlled by Visa and MasterCard .
Right now , banks that issue Visa and MasterCard credit cards are not allowed to issue cards from competitors like American Express and Discover , owned by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
American Express repeated its oft-stated view that Visa and MasterCard are merely trying to distract attention from their own anti-competitive behaviors .




Qbe : Does Its Cost Compute ?

In the early '70s a Utah State post-grad named Alan Kay dreamed of a portable wireless computer that could be carried around like a book but would be as dynamic as a modern PC .
Kay went on to earn fame and fortune at Xerox PARC and Apple , where he pioneered graphical user interfaces and the Newton , but his dream of a " DynaBook " went largely unrealized .
Now a small company based in Irvine , California is trying to resurrect Kay 's dream with the Qbe , which it calls " the world 's first personal-computing tablet . "
Resembling a hybrid between a Palm and a full-featured notebook PC , Aqcess Technologies ' Qbe is a large computing tablet with a big , bright , touch-sensitive screen .
The Qbe started shipping late last month .
It comes in three models , starting at $ 3,995 and climbing to $ 5,395 , depending on options .
Set-up could n't have been easier .
Within minutes the machine was running , and on the network retrieving email and surfing the Web .
Like a notebook computer , the Qbe -- pronounced " cube " -- is designed to be lugged around , from home to office , coffee shop , park and beach , and back again .
But unlike a notebook , the Qbe does n't have a built-in keyboard .
Instead , users take notes and launch applications as they would on a Palm , using their fingers or a special pen that plugs into the top of the machine .
Alternatively , there 's a virtual keyboard that pops up onto the screen .
The Qbe does come with a separate plug-in keyboard and mouse .
They work well but are an impediment to the machine 's portability .
The Qbe can also be voice-controlled and comes with speech-recognition software and a special headset for reducing background noise .
Unfortunately , neither the speech nor handwriting recognition worked very well -- which possibly has more to do with the reviewer 's British accent and scribbly handwriting than any shortcomings of the software .
The Qbe can do everything a good notebook can do and more .
Running Windows 98 , it has a CD-ROM drive , built-in Ethernet , and a 56K modem .
which can be hot-swapped for a rewriteable CD or DVD drive
It has connectors for USB and FireWire and a pair of PC card slots for plugging in wireless modems or GPS receivers .
Unfortunately , neither were included .
Its 400 MHz Pentium II chip launches applications quickly and the 12-GByte hard drive is roomy and responsive .




Network Replaces Nosy Neighbors

SAN FRANCISCO -- Instead of relying on the Mr. Wilsons of the world to watch over your block while you 're away , neighborhoods may soon be monitored by community intranets .
Silicon Valley startup Vicinium is developing technology for automating neighborhoods that would provide local information and warn neighbors of imminent natural disasters .
Vicinium claims to be the first company building software for residential broadband service that reaches beyond the home and into the neighborhood .
Vicinium 's NeighborMation software can be used by cable companies , telcos , and ISPs to offer services through the Internet to residential customers .
Broadband service providers currently offer home security and automation systems to control home infrastructure and automate appliances , allowing homeowners to remotely control heating or lights .
The NeighborMation system would go one step further , providing homes with always-on connections to participate in neighborhood-wide programs , including digital neighborhood watch schemes and community-wide news and information services .
" It essentially creates an intranet in your community , " said Leo Shulman , Vicinium 's president and CEO .
For example , if a tornado or snowstorm were about to strike , the system could turn on televisions in all the connected homes and broadcast a warning message , Shulman said .
Likewise , the system could warn residents of local traffic problems before the morning commute .
While other systems will warn homeowners if anything goes wrong by e-mail , pager , or cell phone , Shulman suggests the Vicinium platform could also alert neighbors to something that needs their attention , such as when intruders trip a security alarm .
" A lot of home security systems turn on the porch light if someone tries to break in , " Shulman said . "
But so what ?
Who notices ?
But what if all the street lights go on ?
That gets people 's attention . "
Shulman said the system could be used to provide news and information directly from local schools , merchants , and businesses .
Utility companies could tap into the system to provide neighborhood-wide power management , allowing it to regulate the use of sprinklers or air-conditioners .
The NeighborMation system could provide a convenient way to transfer permission slips or grades reports from schools to homes .
A school could broadcast permission slips for the entire third grade , which would appear on a TV screen and could be returned with the remote control .
It also could give access to the garage for package or grocery deliveries , automatically unlocking the garage door at the scheduled time for the delivery person to drop off the goods .
Vicinium , whose name comes from the Latin word for " neighborhood , " plans to start trials later this year and to begin selling the NeighborMation platform later this year .




Europe Clamps Down on E-Trash

The European Commission has set its sights on household electrical and electronics equipment waste , calling upon manufacturers to replace dangerous heavy metals used in their products .
Under its Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment approved Tuesday , the commission adopted two proposals to limit the use of various heavy metals in electrical and electronics equipment , and make producers responsible for taking back and recycling old units .
The EC asked electronics and electrical goods manufacturers to replace lead , mercury , cadmium , and hexavalent chromium with less harmful substances by the year 2008 .
Manufacturers must substitute two types of brominated flame retardants -- PBB and PBDE -- by the same date , unless replacements are unable to meet fire safety standards .
Although industry and public interest groups are relieved that a concrete proposal exists after a seven-year drafting process , the EC 's plan has drawn a mixed response .
While one commissioner , Margot Wallstrm , called the proposals a major step toward sustainable production and consumption , European electrical and electronic equipment manufacturers argue that they need cadmium , lead , and mercury to sustain their manufacturing processes .
A ban , they say , could hurt the industry .
The association representing Europe 's electronics industry , Orgalime , lobbied the commission last year to exempt harmful substances in certain applications .
Orgalime -- also known as the Liaison Group of the European Mechanical , Electrical , Electronic , and Metalworking Industries -- claimed that there are no viable alternatives to the banned substances in many applications .
Its 25 member trade federations , representing some 100,000 companies in 16 Western European countries , will now find themselves paying for the new legislation .
In line with the " polluter-pays " principle , producers will have to organize and finance the treatment , recovery , and disposal of waste .
Since more than 90 percent of electrical and electronics equipment waste is disposed of improperly , member states will have to organize collection from private households .
Producers will then channel the waste into certified treatment facilities .
Treatment standards will be in force by 2006 .
The commission hopes manufacturers will heed these measures and , in addition , reduce hazardous substances at the design stage of their products .
Discarded electrical and electronics equipment is a major biohazard .
Its waste is one of the largest sources of heavy metals and organic pollutants entering municipal landfills and incinerators .
From refrigerators and washing machines to TVs and toasters , this waste consititutes 4 percent of municipal waste in the European Union , and these numbers are growing by 16 to 28 percent every five years , EU statistics show .
That 's three times as fast as the growth of average municipal waste .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS




Hey Woz , You 're A Rock Star

The Apple II earned its creator , Steve Wozniak , scads of cash and legions of loyal customers , and now it 's earned him enshrinement in the National Inventors Hall of Fame .
The " Woz " was selected along with Walt Disney and five other inventors , collectively responsible for everything from animation cameras to wireless radio communications and fiber-optic quality glass , by a national panel of scientists and technologists for the hall 's inductee class of 2000 .
" Few people will attain the level of fame of this year 's inductees , " said Thomas Smith , president of the National Inventors Hall of Fame Foundation , in a statement . "
But what 's important is not the final outcome , but rather , the route to invention -- the process of open-minded investigation . "
In addition to Woz , honored for the Apple II , and Walt , honored for an animation camera , inductees include Reginald Fessenden , father of wireless radio communication ; William Kroll , developer of the process for creating the kind of metallic titanium and zirconium used in everything from artificial joints to jet engines ; and J. Franklin Hyde , inventor of fused silica , an ultra-pure glass used in fiber optics .
Woz , Walt , and the gang will join 151 other inventors in the hall , founded in 1973 by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office .
The official induction ceremony will be held in September at the hall 's home in Akron , Ohio .




Technology Wilts in the Heat

Silicon Valley and Multimedia Gulch may be two hot spots in the technology universe , but they can n't stand the heat very well .
When rolling blackouts hit parts of the San Francisco Bay Area Wednesday , the local power grid failed to keep pace with the demand for electricity during a second consecutive day of blistering heat .
San Francisco tied its all-time record of 103 degrees Fahrenheit , while 50 miles south , San Jose set a new city record , popping the thermometer at 109 .
Officials at the California Independent System Operator , which oversees operation of most of the state 's power system , said that Pacific Gas & Electric was cutting service to customers east and south of San Francisco on a rotating basis in an attempt to avoid more widespread blackouts .
ISO
One place hit by the blackouts was San Francisco 's Multimedia Gulch in the South-of-Market area , home to a large number of tech companies .
Farther south , PG&E issued a number of requests to several Silicon Valley companies , asking them to voluntarily cut down on their power consumption .
Thursday was hot , but cooler .
Still , the question remains : Can the Internet infrastructure handle the heat ?
" Over the last 10 years the Bay Area has seen tremendous growth and expansion , " said PG&E representative Tom Collins . "
From the Silicon Valley to San Francisco to the East Bay , weve seen tremendous growth in population and businesses , and it parallels the record levels of consumption thats been taking place . "
One Internet infrastructure expert said he does not think that rolling blackouts , which caused Wednesday 's power failures , will have a significant impact on the flow of information in the Internet infrastructure .
But he said that significant damage could occur because of the lack of surplus power .
" Computer systems may still be vulnerable , " said Peter Neumann , author of the book Computer Related Risks . "
Although some folks have emergency generators , they are never really prepared to use them for very long . "
" There is very little surplus power in the deregulated power grid , " Neumann added . "
There could be serious effects resulting from widespread outages , as there were a few summers ago . "
Neumann was referring to an incident in 1998 , when an electrical power substation failure knocked out power to 375,000 utility customers in the Bay Area .
Daniel Norton , president of Cherry Hill software , said that Wednesday 's blackout should act as a " wake-up call " for Bay Area tech companies .
" This will remind people of the purpose of quality backup systems and procedures , and remind them of the risks involved . "
Norton thinks that most companies are not equipped to handle power failures lasting more than 24 hours , and that due to high costs , they do not initiate procedures designed to anticipate such failures .
" Even companies that have backup systems distributed geographically often fail to see single points of failure that would prevent a smooth transfer , " Norton said . "
This is a particular challenge for complex networks in which name resolution , email , Web and database services are distributed across several systems or networks . "
PG&E insisted that Wednesday 's blackout was an aberration caused by the unprecedented heat wave .
The company says that it has extensive recovery plans for these kinds of situations .
Collins said that PG&E did not ask tech companies to send people home , as some news reports claimed , but only to curb their power usage .
" To go out and ask customers to curb their power use the way we did was unusual , " he said . "
The ridiculous heat created the high loads . "
Collins added that PG&E asked companies to turn off unused computers and unused electrical equipment , to ease up on air conditioning , and to " take part in some conservation . "
Collins said that most companies complied , and that a number of them have a deal with PG&E in which they receive discounted service if they agree to cut down on power if an event like Wednesday 's heat wave occurs .
Sean Gould , a site support engineer at TheMan.com , a men 's lifestyle website located in Multimedia Gulch , said that his company was powerless for about an hour .
" It 's part of the game , as it were .
Without electricity , we were kind of screwed , " Gould said . "
We couldnt log in to anything and caused network problems when the power came back on . "
the blackout
However , Gould said that surfers eager to see what TheMan had to say Wednesday would still be able to visit the site .
" The main servers are on , " Gould said .
uninterrupted power supply
One analyst said that companies without a universal power supply -- or even a basic-server UPS -- are the likeliest to be forced to shut down .
" Those that do n't have offsite backup facilities or self-contained power go down , " said Joel Baker , a network analyst for a Bay Area Internet service provider . "
But customer-facing services are housed in co-location facilities with battery/generator backup power , and should n't be affected . "
our
Neumann pointed out that the current infrastructure is not properly equipped to handle extended periods of power failure and that many systems are susceptible to collapse .
" Even though it is summer , rolling blackouts are just the tip of the iceberg , " he said . "
The President 's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection pointed out how vulnerable all of the infrastructures are , power and telecommunications . "
including
That commission did , in fact , point out the vulnerability of the Internet infrastructure to power failures , in addition to attacks by hackers .




This MP3 Brought to You By ...

As the Senate Judiciary Committee prepares for its hearing on music file trading and downloading , one company is offering technology to help compensate artists whose music is distributed for free .
On Monday , Digital Payloads , Inc. unveiled a new technology that allows content owners to embed audio advertisements within MP3 files .
The innovation could aid in the development of a pay structure that will compensate artists , publishers , and labels by creating music files that can be distributed for free while generating revenue .
" It 's a free promotion in the same way the labels hand out free promotions to MTV and radio stations to promote acts or whatever other monetization models they want to use , " said John Brewer , president and co-founder of Digital Payloads . "
In that sense , that gives Napster and Scour a licensed track to trade , and the labels get the branding , and we can put links within the file so that people are encouraged to buy the CD . "
Since there is no way to track the MP3 once it 's downloaded from a site , advertisers would pay a one-time sponsorship fee to place a five-second commercial in the music file .
That money would then be distributed between the songwriter , musicians , and label .
Brewer said the company is banking that it would be more of a hassle to remove the ads than to listen .
" One of the things we are focused on when we were developing this technology is making this as unobtrusive as we can , " said Brewer . "
This is n't some blow-out , in-your-face thing that detracts from the music .
It 's no more obtrusive than an FM DJ announcing a song . "
Some analysts are not sold on the idea of embedding advertisements in music .
The main problem comes from consumers who are accustomed to listening to their digital music without commercial intrusions .
" People will n't like this , " said Eric Scheirer , Forrester Research media and entertainment analyst . "
The industry could distribute these on the Web , but there is no reason to think that these ads will stay with the music for long .
These ad-base MP3s are more likely to be interesting to the advertisers than the consumers . "
Despite the short span of the commercials , Scheirer said that consumers would still find a way around the technology .
" If they are going to be that short , the effort to take it off the music file is probably more than the stress you get listening to the ad , " Scheirer said . "
Individual consumers will n't take it off , but somebody will make an application that will strip this type of thing out of the file so that you still will n't get the viral marketing this was made to create . "
While the company is focusing on creating audio ads , Brewer said that the new technology could also be used to wrap MP3 files with multimedia metadata about the consumers as well .
Other companies have sought to create ad-based revenues for downloadable music , although in the case of EverAd.com , which embeds banners within music files , consumers can n't listen to the tracks on portable devices or home stereo systems .
" When a user downloads one of our tracks and they want it for free , there are limitations , " said Jason Pascal , executive director of EverAd 's music division . "
If they want to steal the music that 's fine , but that 's not a business model .
If they want portability -- whether an MP3 player or stereo system -- then they have to buy it .
" I do n't look at this as a method of distribution unto itself .
It 's part of the bigger picture and the bigger scheme .
If the big labels go toward the subscription model , this would be one element of that . "
Pascal said tiered subscription models will likely develop where consumers can pay for advertising free content , or receive free MP3 files which come with embedded advertisements .
In May , MP3.com announced a service to supply retail outlets such as shopping malls , restaurants , and grocery stores with music that is surrounded by ads .
The most promising attempts to create this type of solution comes from streaming radio sites where station managers can create highly targeted advertisements .
Both Everstream and Lightningcast allow content owners to add local and national audio commercials into their music streams .




Buying , Britney , & Lars -- Oh My !

Paying for content on the Internet is getting easier , thanks to the folks in Redmond .
Dubbed the Digital Broadcast Manager , the new software system enables websites to quickly become e-commerce sites .
The program will help companies covert digital media into secure , saleable product , create a store front , and manage and track sales .
The manager runs with Windows2000 .
Once it 's loaded up , you type in the business rules you want to employ -- price , date available , and the like -- and your digital media is ready to become a valued product .
Over 25 companies have announced their intention to use the system , including the House of Blues and NASCAR .
" We are starting to see the movement in digital media progressing away from just being a promotional vehicle to being an e-commerce vehicle , " said Dave Fester , general manager for marketing for the digital media division at Microsoft .
" A lot of the content being offered by the House of Blues and the WWF is pretty attractive .
The net effect of this package is that any company like this can now turn their website pretty rapidly into a digital media solution . "
The software retails for $ 495 , with a 10 cent usage fee tacked on for each transaction completed .
Anyplace with digital media can be turned into an e-commerce site .
" The cost of entry into e-commerce is very high , " Fester said . "
Now you can get up and running with e-commerce within a day . "
---
Mood Sing : The folks at MoodLogic launched the first Internet-enabled music browser for the un-hip and average music consumer .
Users request music styles they want to hear -- pop music from the early '80s , with female vocals for instance -- and the browser then serves up a 30-second sound clips .
Listeners are then afforded the opportunity to either skip or purchase the song .
" Consumers have had no easy way to discover new music that they like , " said MoodLogic CEO Tom Sulzer in a written statement . "
When integrated into shopping and sales sites our browser invites listeners to explore the music universe in intuitive ways . "
The MoodLogic browser contains over 250,000 songs , including most of the Billboard Top 40 since 1960 .
Each of the songs have been classified by over 20,000 consumers and hundreds of music specialists .
---
Sweatin ' to MP3.com : Now that MP3.com has made nice with the major music labels , it 's time for the company to get lean and mean while figuring out how to create revenue streams .
The latest plan involves syndicating music from the website to XYSTOS Media Network , which will install 15,000 touch-screen terminals in 400 fitness clubs worldwide .
Also on tap is The Children 's Channel , which offers up fairly tales , nursery rhymes , and songs for $ 9.99 a month .
This is the second of what CEO Michael Robertson hopes will be a series of channels targeted at niche markets .
And not to be outdone by upstart MusicBank , MP3.com -- the company that landed a licensing deal with BMG allowing the music company to stream major-label music in the same manner as the my.mp3.com service -- is moving into the retail environment .
Customers who purchase music from any Djangos retail store now have the option of moving that music directly into their personal music jukebox .
---
Streamed Apple : RealNetworks joins with Apple to create streaming video and audio in the QuickTime format .
Real also announced that its recently released RealServer8 system will support the delivery of Apple 's content to its QuickTime player .
The two have promised to play nice , agreeing to abide by the " Ask , Tell , Help " initiative which promises that the companies will n't design players that automatically change default media players without asking the user .
---
Oh Baby , Baby : Teen Queen Britney Spears jumped into the stock-for-hire game , signing a deal with Generation Y website YOUtopia.com .
Spears is slated to help shape content and promotions for the site , which will include interactive site guides , online parties , and live chats .
---
It 's the Classics , Stupid : MP3.com has a classical music channel , but nothing to compare with the 66 symphony orchestras , opera , and ballet companies that are turning to the Internet to promote and sell their performances .
No word yet on how these folks are going to make money -- the live performances will be streamed for free -- but with most operating without label contracts they do n't have a lot to lose .
---
Mars Needs Metallica : It 's official .
Lars and the boys from Metallica are looking to Mars to sponsor their Summer Sanitarium Tour .
Online retailer Marsmusic.com - which operates kiosks in 37 retail stores in 19 states -- will offer promotional ticket give-aways , onsite radio broadcasts , and live chats with the band .
On July 14 , the company will also host an exclusive webcast of the band 's San Francisco concert .
Makes you wonder if Napster is from Venus .




Gates Vants to Be Alone

TOKYO -- The world 's richest man , running a successful business and blessed with a loving wife and two children , still wants more .
Bill Gates told a crowd of university students in Tokyo on Friday that he still has not exhausted his list of goals in life .
When asked what more he wanted in life , Gates promptly replied , " privacy . "
Gates , ranked the world 's richest man by Forbes magazine , also said he still has not fulfilled his dream of creating software that is truly easy to use , and that his and his company 's future will continue to be focused on the production of great software .
" By setting a very ambitious goal , I never had the problem of arriving at a finish line , " Gates told the 10,000 students packed inside the university auditorium .
Gates was in Tokyo to receive an honorary degree from Japan 's Rikkyo University , where he fielded questions ranging from the future of the digital revolution to approaches in problem-solving .
When asked what he would do if his son decided to leave school to start a business as Gates did , Gates said that his parents had been supportive of him , despite their initial skepticism about their son 's business succeeding .
" I 'm sure that my parents felt there was a good chance the company would fail and that I 'd go back to school ... but after seeing how committed I was , and knowing that even the worst-case situation was not really a disaster , they were actually supportive once I made that decision , " Gates said .
" I hope I 'll do as good as my parents did , " he added .
The software mogul , who is in the midst of an antitrust case in which his company may be split in two , called himself a " rational optimist " and said he believed the world was always moving towards the better .
" I 'm certainly about the most optimistic person you 'd ever meet .
I think it 's based on a rational view of the world .
I do n't think my optimism is insane , " Gates said .
The students appeared impressed .
" I thought a rich man like Mr. Gates would be more cold , but I learned that you need to be well-versed in many things to be successful like him , " said Kayoko Takematsu , a 20-year-old university student who attended the session .
" His mind is very flexible , " said 20-year-old Saeko Takiyama . "
I guess that 's a common trait in all those who succeed . "




Say Goodbye to Pesky Bridges

NEW YORK -- It might sound like something out of Star Trek , but soon scientists may be able to help patients regrow missing teeth , dental researchers say .
When it is perfected , tooth regeneration may replace dentures and dental implants as the best way to restore lost teeth , said Dr. Mary MacDougall , a professor at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio .
MacDougall and fellow researchers are using animal models and human genetics to understand the processes by which teeth are formed , with the long-term goal of creating human teeth in the lab .
Ultimately , researchers want to enable patients to regenerate teeth themselves , using their own tissue .
This tissue possesses a " memory " of how teeth are developed , MacDougall said .
Researchers are trying to understand why some genes only express themselves during development , and not afterward .
If scientists can figure out how to " reawaken " these genes after tooth loss , they could trigger the growth of new teeth .
" We are studying the highly specialized dental cell types that compose a tooth and produce the various tissues -- dentin , enamel , and cementum , " MacDougall said Thursday at a press briefing in New York sponsored by the American Dental Association .
Hoping to identify what genes are involved in normal and abnormal tooth development , the group is conducting human genetic studies of families that possess certain dental traits .
" Using large families , we have found a number of new genes in a region located on chromosome 4 that impact normal tooth development , " said MacDougall , who is also a professor of pediatric dentistry .
Researchers are also genetically engineering mice and human cell lines to reproduce and form dentin , enamel , and cementum in culture .
MacDougall is working with " tooth farms " -- various types of tooth cells growing in culture -- to study what mechanisms control certain tooth-related genes .
The group has been able to grow whole-tooth tissue cultures for mice in the lab , she said .
Other goals are to regenerate or repair structures such as the periodontal ligament , which holds the teeth 's hard tissue to the bone surface , and which is destroyed in gum disease , and to grow soft pulp to replace damaged pulp in a tooth 's root so as to avoid a root canal , the removal of the tooth 's root in its entirety .
" We hope that our work holds the beginnings here of the next generation of dental implants -- the replacement of teeth by regenerated -- in one 's own body , or in a dish from another 's cells , " MacDougall said .
ones
Even if teeth can be grown first from the cells of others , MacDougall does not expect that the body will reject such a " donation . "
Foreign implanted teeth and tooth tissue do not produce immune reactions the way foreign organs do .
In the shorter term , MacDougall 's team is investigating which genes may be involved with the development of gum disease , a problem that affects most adults over age 40 and can lead to tooth loss .
Family studies have also allowed researchers to learn more about genes governing certain tooth diseases , some of which might be amenable to correction via gene therapy .
One such disease is dentin dysplasia , or improper formation of the inner core of a tooth .
Clinical trials for both dentin dysplasia and tooth regeneration could begin in as few as two to five years , MacDougall said .




Napster 's Good ?
Bad ?
Er , What... ?

While a House committee listened to testimony about the benefits of free music to the recording industry , Napster inked a deal with a New York hip-hop label Thursday to provide a service that it hopes will create revenue streams from free music distribution .
Further complicating the debate over the merits of file-trading applications like Napster , the executive director of the Digital Media Association , Jonathan Potter , presented a study to the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property , which concludes that streaming and downloading music on the Internet encourages CD sales .
The study , compiled by the Yankelovich Partners , surveyed 16,000 Americans between the ages of 13 and 39 who say they listen to more than 10 hours of music a week and have spent at least $ 25 on music in the past six months .
Among the findings : 59 percent of those who said they heard a certain piece of music for the first time while online ended up purchasing that music as a CD .
" The report says there are a lot of artists and record labels who are n't getting played on radio because they are in the wrong genre , " Potter said . "
The corporate radio guys are just doing standard radio .
So people are looking for music on the Web and when they find music they like , those people are going out to purchase the music . "
The report also found that nearly 60 percent of those surveyed would buy the music if they could buy it then and there .
As technology evolves , business models will follow , " Potter said in a written statement . "
The legal and business rules that once outlined the playing field need to be flexible enough to include this new medium of consumer-driven digital media alternatives , especially when the alternatives clearly benefit the music industry as a whole . "
Napster hopes its deal with independent music label 75 Ark will encourage that kind of e-commerce model while creating " substantial non-infringing uses " for the file-trading application .
Creating those users is a necessary component to its legal defense against the Recording Industry Association of America , which has asked a federal judge to shut the service down .
The deals calls for the label -- which is home to acts such as The Coup and the Anti Pop Consortium -- to begin posting MP3 files once a month on the Napster homepage , which is not a part of the file-trading network .
According to Erik Gilbert , the label 's vice president and general manager , the two companies are working on a plan that also would provide links to the music label 's homepage so that listeners could purchase the CDs of music they like .
" I saw what was happening with Napster as well as how many people are using the service and it seemed a great thing to get involved with , " Gilbert said . "
This technology is n't something you can fight , so we figured why not join it and use it to market our artists . "
Napster claims to have a user base of 10 million people .
The partnership is a first for Napster 's newly upgraded New Artist Program , which allows musicians to voluntarily share their music with users .
" This kind of arrangement is not going to take away from CD sales , " Gilbert said . "
This is going to add to the value of the music and make it easier for fans to find music they like . "




The New Int'l Media Powerhouse

PARIS -- France 's Vivendi , its Canal Plus pay-TV unit , and Canada 's Seagram said on Tuesday they would merge in a $ 34 billion all-share deal that creates a new global media powerhouse to rival AOL-Time Warner .
After nine months of talks followed by board meetings of all three companies over the weekend and on Monday , they announced a deal which values Seagram at $ 77.35 per share -- a 46 percent premium over the company 's closing share price last Tuesday of $ 53 .
The merger promises to create a media group with virtually unrivalled content and distribution channels .
It joins Seagram 's entertainment assets , which include Universal Pictures and large music holdings , with the growing telecommunications and Internet infrastructure being developed by Vivendi .
The deal also marks a milestone in Vivendi Chairman Jean-Marie Messier 's quest to transform Vivendi from the staid utilities conglomerate he took over in 1996 into a leading-edge global media player .
But European markets remained skeptical on Tuesday about the price Vivendi is paying and continued to pummel its stock , which has now lost about 23 percent of its value in a week .
Vivendi shares were off 7 percent at 89.70 euros in midday trading .
Canal Plus stock was down 9.61 percent at 183.5 euros .
" I 'm not sure what Messier thought he was doing by agreeing to pay a premium for Seagram whose assets have been touted around many media companies for some time now , " said a London-based analyst .
The terms of the share swap are subject to a so-called " collar , " which protects against big swings in the share prices ahead of the conclusion of the deal .
Under the terms of the share swap , Seagram shareholders will receive Vivendi shares equivalent to the value of $ 77.35 in exchange for each common share of Seagram stock held .
The precise number of Vivendi shares to be exchanged for Seagram shares will be subject to the collar -- should Vivendi 's stock trade below $ 96.69 the swap rate will be fixed at 0.8 and should it trade above $ 124.30 the swap rate would be 0.622 .
Canal Plus shareholders will receive 2.0 Vivendi shares for each Canal Plus share held , as well as keeping an interest in Canal 's regulated businesses , of which 51 percent remains on the bourse .
To be called Vivendi Universal , the combined entity will have revenues of some $ 55 billion , market capitalization of $ 100 billion .
The companies said they expect the transaction to be completed before the end of this year .
It will be a force to be reckoned with by the likes of AOL-Time Warner , the U.S. media giant which is still in the process of being formed .
Although the transaction calls for Vivendi to assume some $ 7 billion in Seagram debt , Vivendi signalled on Tuesday that this would be erased following the sale of Seagram 's beverage business , which includes well-known brands like Chivas Regal whiskey and Absolut vodka .
Analysts have estimated the drinks activities could fetch between $ 6 billion and $ 7 billion .
Messier , who will become chairman and chief executive of Vivendi Univeral , is eager to distribute Seagram 's extensive entertainment content through its new Internet portal , Vizzavi .
Vivendi launched the portal with British partner Vodafone AirTouch on Monday , offering Internet access and online services to the group 's combined 80 million mobile phone users and pay TV subscribers in Europe .
Vivendi also controls France 's number two telecoms operator Cegetel , publisher Havas , film group Pathe and a stake in Web provider AOL France .
Seagram head Edgar Bronfman , who concentrated on building Seagram into an entertainment company , was named vice chairman of the combined company and will head the group 's music and Internet businesses .
Seagram will have five of the 20 board seats , with Vivendi holding 14 and Canal Plus Chairman Pierre Lescure the remaining seat .
While Seagram shareholders have broadly welcomed the deal , European investors have said the merger is not without risks for Vivendi .
Worries center around the dilutive impact of a deal on Vivendi earnings and losses in some of Seagram 's activities .
Analysts are also worried about the potential for a French-Canadian culture clash and have doubts about Messier 's ability to run a truly global company from Paris .
Vivendi Universal shares will be listed on the Paris , New York , and Toronto stock exchanges .




I Spy With My Super Eye

Now , if you only could fly , your comic book fantasies would be complete : The University of Rochester has introduced a shortcut to superhuman vision .
Using technology developed by astronomers who wanted a better look at the stars , researcher David Williams has developed an optical system that dramatically improves the vision of people with even 20/20 eyesight .
" It 's very impressive , " said Jerry Nelson , director of the National Science Foundation Center for Adaptive Optics at the University of California , Santa Cruz , which has offered the researchers a grant to continue developing the technology . "
If you were standing across the room from your cat you could count every hair on his coat . "
Williams , co-director of Rochester 's Center for Visual Science , likens the new advance to " the difference between regular and high-definition television .
" If you wear glasses you may remember the first time you ever put them on and saw the world clearly , " he said . "
This is like taking that clarity up to the next level . "
The optical system , known as Super Vision or Perfect Vision , is still in the research stage but at least one major eye-care company is focusing on its possibilities .
Bausch & Lomb has licensed the technology and is building the Center for Vision Excellence to explore commercial applications .
The Super Vision system uses techniques originally developed by astronomers to sharpen telescope images distorted by Earth 's atmosphere .
Researchers direct a highly focused beam of light into the eyes of subjects .
Light that reflects back out of the eye passes through an array of micro-lenses that break up the light into an array of 217 separate beams .
That array falls onto , and is photographed by , a sensitive digital camera .
If the subject has perfect vision , the photographed array reveals a perfect pattern .
But since no cornea is perfectly shaped , the photographed array instead gives researchers a distinct , personalized , and very detailed , look at the most minute corneal and lens defects , all revealed by the refracted light beam .
The system detects visual distortions so subtle that until now they 've never been measured .
" Traditional glasses correct for only two kinds of defects : focus and astigmatism , " Williams said . "
We can measure up to 65 different aberrations . "
Once the subject 's eye is measured precisely -- in less than 1/30 of a second -- and the image is captured with the digital camera , the measurements are sent to a sensitive deformable mirror .
Although it looks like a pocket mirror , the device functions very differently from one .
Mounted on its back are 37 little pistons .
These pistons can push or pull on different segments of the mirror , creating micro-adjustments that correct for the specific distortions of the subject 's eye .




EU Probes AOL Time Warner Deal

BRUSSELS -- The European Commission opened a four-month in-depth probe on Monday into the planned merger of America Online Inc and Time Warner Inc , an investigation which will set the ground rules for future links between entertainment and Internet companies .
The Commission 's decision to look more closely at the mega-merger comes just four days after its launched a similar probe into the planned joint venture between Time Warner 's music operations and Britain 's EMI Group Plc .
The European Union 's antitrust watchdog said it would " examine the effects of the transaction on the emerging business of music distribution over the Internet and on the markets for Internet dial-up access and paid-for content . "
It said the main competition issue arising from the merger was the vertical integration of Time Warner 's content with AOL 's online services , a problem complicated by AOL 's joint promotion , distribution , and sales agreement with Germany 's Bertelsmann .
" As a result of the merger with Time Warner , AOL will have preferential access to the leading source of music publishing rights and music repertoire in most member states , " the Commission said in a statement .
EU
" It can not be excluded that , because of the strength of the music catalogue to which AOL will have access , it will be able to dictate the technical standards for delivering music over the Internet and monopolize the music player software , " it said .
" This strategy could enable AOL to play the role of ' gatekeeper ' in the emerging online music distribution channel . "
AOL said it remained confident of closing the deal in the autumn .
" This merger approval process is on track , " said AOL spokesman Jim Whitney . "
We 're cooperating fully with the Commission and making solid progress in this process . "
" As we have said all along , the combination of AOL and Time Warner promises tremendous benefits for consumers worldwide . "
The Commission said AOL had offered some commitments aimed at severing a structural link with Bertelsmann stemming from their European joint venture AOL Europe , but that these were insufficient to ease the competition concerns .
The Commission said it would also examine whether AOL could leverage its strong position on the U.S. Internet market and its proprietary content and services to achieve dominance in Europe " in a number of neighboring Internet paid-for content markets , such as films , TV programs , and financial news . "
It said AOL was the leading U.S. Internet company with about 40 percent market share and the only Internet company with a presence in most EU states .
AOL , the world 's biggest Internet services provider , and media giant Time Warner announced plans to join forces in January in a deal worth around $ 125 billion .
That deal was agreed shortly before Warner Music agreed a joint venture with EMI .
Last Thursday , the Commission opened a four-month extended probe into the Warner Music/EMI venture , saying it would lead to an oligopoly of four firms dominating the West European recorded music market .
It also stressed that investigation would focus on music publishing and digital delivery of music via the Internet , suggesting the Commission wants to take an extremely hard look at any mergers involving major players in the burgeoning Internet market .
" There are strong indications that Time Warner/EMI could become dominant in the digital delivery of music via the Internet , especially considering the merger between AOL and Time Warner , " the Commission said last week .
The Commission rarely blocks mergers , but often requires companies to make " undertakings , " such as divestments , to meet its competition concerns .
The AOL/Time Warner deal is expected to face serious regulatory problems in the United States .
The U.S. National Association of Broadcasters says it can accept the deal as long as the new group 's cable franchises let rivals broadcast their services on its infrastructure .
Consumer groups are concerned about the potential strength of the new group 's Internet and media services such as Time Warner Entertainment and Internet service Road Runner .




God Speed RadioShack

With a new age of commercial space exploration on the horizon , US electronics retailer RadioShack hopes to bolster its image and sales by going to the moon .
RadioShack said on Thursday it will co-sponsor the first commercial lunar landing , a robot probe for ancient ice that could reveal secrets of the solar system , provide rocket fuel for deep-space missions , or allow human colonies on the moon .
The Icebreaker Moon Rover is the brainchild of LunaCorp , a privately held Arlington , Va. startup that plans to launch the moon prospector in late 2003 .
" There is going to be a space frontier populated by lots of different companies , " said LunaCorp President David Gump . "
There is no reason that space &#91;exploration&#93 ; needs to be a government program any more . "
LunaCorp plans to fund the mission through corporate sponsorships , as well as through exclusive television deals , Internet portal fees and government contracts .
The first corporate sponsor is Fort Worth , Texas-based RadioShack , who , with over 7,100 stores nationwide , is the largest US consumer electronics retailer .
LunaCorp said it was still looking for four or five other sponsors .
RadioShack pledged approximately $ 1 million for this year and an undisclosed amount for future years , said Jim McDonald , RadioShack 's senior vice president of marketing .
" Space exploration will really associate us with leading-edge science and technology , " McDonald said .
RadioShack , long a place to buy electronic components and gadgets , is in the process of repositioning itself as a " home connectivity store , " selling mobile phones , personal computers , satellite television systems , high-definition TV and broadband Internet access .
Teaming up with LunaCorp will allow RadioShack to put its logo on the Moon Rover robot .
In the meantime , McDonald said the deal will also yield lots of interesting content for RadioShack 's website , its in-store home theater displays , and its broadband Internet access offers .
" This stuff engages our customers , " he said .
Plans include a Moon Rover simulation game expected to appear late this year on the RadioShack site , a feature RadioShack hopes will give the site added stickiness .
RadioShack 's website and in-store HDTV and broadband Internet sales displays will also feature video imagery from a prototype Moon Rover expected to make a test run in the Canadian Arctic in July 2001 .
LunaCorp said the mission will be the first commercial moon landing , although another company , Poway , California-based Spacedev , hopes to launch a lunar orbiter in late 2001 .
Both projects are part of a small but growing movement among private companies to move into space , beyond the established sphere of telecommunications and imaging satellites in earth orbit .
Analysts say that with powerful computers and digital technology affordable and widely available , the last barrier to commercial space flight -- high launch costs -- is also gradually being eroded .
With the introduction of reusable launch vehicles expected in the next five to 10 years , launch costs should drop even further , to the point where any company with a good business plan may be able to go into space .
" It 's a trend , " said Marco Caceres , senior space analyst at Teal Group . "
The growth is gradual , but anything is possible .
There 's a move for space tourism -- there could be farming on the moon .
It 's open to the imagination . "




AOL Now Under the Microscope

WASHINGTON -- First it was Microsoft .
Then it was Intel .
After that were probes of eBay , real estate , and airline websites -- all courtesy of Washington 's newly emboldened federal antitrustocrats .
Now AOL has been hit with one too .
The Wall Street Journal reported this week that the Feds are looking into AOL 's dominance of the instant-messaging biz as part of the antitrust examination of AOL 's $ 113 billion purchase of Time Warner .
Lo and behold on Thursday , AOL finally sent a proposal to the Internet Engineering Task Force outlining how competing systems could communicate with their system .
The FreeIM group of 43 vendors had been begging the feds to get AOL to stop blocking competitors ' products .
There 's also a subtle irony here .
Roberta Katz , at the time general counsel for Netscape , spoke at a Ralph Nader pro-antitrust conference in 1997 .
And Netscape , now part of AOL , funds a group called ProComp , which agitates for more aggressive enforcement of antitrust laws .
---
Cash for trash : By now you 've probably heard about apparent attempts by the White House 's favorite private eye to grab trash from Microsoft-funded groups .
The firm , Investigative Group International , has been linked to attempts to pay janitors for possibly sensitive documents discarded by a free trade group .
Here 's another connection : IGI Chairman Terry Lenzner knows David Boies , the private-sector attorney representing the Justice Department in its antitrust suit against Microsoft .
Lenzner and Boies may even know each other rather well .
But , alas for conspiracy buffs , they were n't friends but adversaries : New York developer Howard Milstein hired Boies to represent him in a dispute with the NFL -- which had retained Lenzner 's firm to investigate Milstein .
---
Entertainment lobbying : For just about any Washington reporter , the Center for Responsive Politics ' reports on fund raising and campaign contributions have long proved invaluable .
But CRP 's analysis this week misses the point .
The group says that when it comes to battles in Congress over intellectual property legislation and campaign contributions , " surprisingly , the entertainment industry and high tech are almost neck and neck in this year 's money race . "
TV/Movies/Music
But on intellectual property , the entertainment industry and high tech are actually more allies than enemies .
For example , at the Business Software Alliance-organized event in D.C. last week , Bill Gates and execs from Intel , Adobe , and others showed up to demand " strong copyright protection . "
Disney 's Michael Eisner said much the same thing during his separate visit last week .
It 's true that AOL and Internet providers may not be fans of such measures , but as long as they can guarantee they 're not affected , such firms are n't likely to be opponents either .




When DVD Is Too Good to Be Legal

To Hollywood 's alarm , a British company is selling modified DVD players that output pure digital signals .
Unlike regular DVD players , which provide ho-hum quality analog pictures , Function Communications ' modified DVD players output a stream of pure digital video .
And while the machines are bought mainly by videophiles for high-end home theater systems , the modified players could be used to copy Hollywood movies with stunning digital fidelity .
DVDs are encoded in digital MPEG2 format but -- at the behest of Hollywood , players usually convert the pictures into a much lower-quality analog signal for display on conventional televisions .
The analog signal can be copied -- people record DVD films with their VCRs -- but the quality is comparable to the average wedding video .
However , Function 's modification adds a custom chipset that bypasses the analog conversion process and taps directly into the high-quality digital stream of MPEG2 video .
" The picture quality is absolutely incredible , " said David Garrett , Function 's technical director who invented the modification . "
It 's pretty amazing .
It looks as good as films that are projected . "
According to Garrett , the modified players are sold largely to well-heeled movie buffs who hook them up to $ 10,000 , 42-inch Plasma TVs or digital projectors to create the ultimate home theater .
There 's also a lot of business from the film and TV industry , and companies that use the players to make a splash in their foyers or at trade shows .
Function sells about 100 modified players each month for $ 2,300 , Garrett said .
Garrett said that while many Hollywood producers can n't wait to get their disks into one of the modified players , most have misgivings about seeing the players on the market .
On the one hand , it allows their movies to be shown at the highest possible quality , but producers are also afraid digital outputs will lead to a loss of control , Garrett said .
DVD manufacturers license the DVD format from the DVD Copy Control Association .
Its contract prohibit makers from including digital outputs -- specifically a FireWire port -- in their players for fear it will allow consumers to make digital copies .
Garrett said he studied the paperwork and concluded that while it is n't illegal to make a chipset providing digital outputs , add them to DVD players , or sell the modified machine , it appears to be illegal to use the modified player to play a movie .
" If you read the fine points of the law , anyone who plays a with a digital output is breaking the law , " he said . "
DVD movie
But if you 're just watching it , how are you breaking the law ? "
Garrett said he received " dozens " of cease-and-desist letters from Hollywood lawyers when the modified players first appeared on the market in the U.K last month .
But since then , the legal threats have come to a halt .
Garrett thinks it 's because there is little danger of legions of teenagers copying the latest DVDs and posting them on the Internet .
The main reason being that the modified players output in a format called SDI , or serial digital interface , a standard format used in the TV and video industry .
To copy movies , would-be pirates would need $ 50,000 worth of professional equipment .
" Most people have n't even heard of SDI , let alone have the equipment , " Garrett said . "
It is n't a consumer format , like FireWire , it 's a professional , broadcast format . "
Garrett said he is prepared , if necessary , to add an encryption scheme that would prevent movies from being copied .
The second reason that widespread copying is unlikely is that DVD movies are encoded in a way that makes the copies practically useless .
The encoding scheme excludes critical color information that is added when DVDs are played but is missing if they are recorded .
" DVD only looks good when you 're playing it , " Garrett explained . "
If you record it , you get a generation loss .
It 's designed to look really good when playing .
It 's not designed to be recorded . "
" I personally do n't think it 's an issue , " he added . "
I do n't know what all the fuss is about . "
Mark Lipvack , director of legal affairs , worldwide piracy , for the Motion Picture Association of America , which represents the major Hollywood studios , said he had n't heard of the modified players and was n't sure of the legal ramifications .
" I 've not seen it and I do n't know how to comment on it , " he said . "
I 'm not sure if it 's illegal or not .
That 's a matter for the licensee . "
In a related but separate issue , the MPAA is suing the hacker quarterly 2600 for linking to sites with the DVD encryption-busting DeCSS program .
The DVD Copy Control Association , which licenses the DVD technology , was unavailable for comment .




Dell Likes Linux , They Really Do

Dell Computer , the world 's No. 2 personal computer maker , has elevated the Linux OS to one of the strategic operating systems it installs on its products .
The title , which Linux now shares with Microsoft Windows and Novell 's NetWare , means Dell will offer support for Linux from its development team and integrate Linux into new hardware and other products .
Dell also named Red Hat as its preferred distributor of Linux , which means Dell 's Linux servers and desktop computers will have Red Hat products installed unless a customer requests another Linux distributor 's product .
Shares of Red Hat zoomed to 32-5/8 before sliding back to 29-1/2 , up 4-1/8 .
RHAT
Dell was down one to 48-9/16 .
DELL
In a related announcement , Dell said it would supply Toyota Motor Sales USA , a unit of Toyota Motor , with appliance servers running Red Hat 's Linux operating system in 1,260 of the automaker 's dealerships .
Dell 's PowerApp .
Web appliance servers will deliver multimedia sales and information programs , which Toyota can update any time to its national dealership network , Dell said .
- - -
Commerce One buys AppNet : Commerce One has signed a deal to acquire Internet consulting firm AppNet in a stock deal worth about $ 1.24 billion .
Pleasanton , California-based Commerce One , which builds Internet-based commercial exchanges , said it would issue 0.8 shares of its stock for each outstanding share of Bethesda , Maryland-based AppNet .
Commerce One said the acquisition would significantly enhance its ability to deliver e-commerce services to its customers .
- - -
Lara Croft is selling out : Eidos , the computer-games publisher known for its Tomb Raider video games , said it was in early talks that could lead to an offer for the company .
Shares in the faltering British company , which has had problems adapting to new gaming platforms , rose 21 percent , valuing it at over half a billion pounds .
$ 760 million
The stock had started to rise before the announcement on fresh takeover speculation , which centered on French rivals Infogrames and Vivendi 's Havas Interactive .
In addition , there has been speculation by some analysts that Microsoft may be interested in Eidos .
" Microsoft looking to buy a very big Japanese publisher and developer and turned down , so maybe they are looking for another one , " said Beeson Gregory analyst Julian Morse .
was
was
- - -
Sony steps up : Sony continues its grand electronic networking strategy by targeting the juicy cellphone and mobile computer market .
Chief operating officer Kunitake Ando said Sony plans to boost its tiny 2 or 3 percent share of the global cellphone market by a factor of 10 , by launching unique products .
Ando said Sony is likely to introduce a new cellular phone equipped with its tiny Memory Stick device and include the personal stereo functions of its ubiquitous Walkman .
- - -
Warren goes shoe shopping : Warren Buffett 's holding company Berkshire Hathaway will buy Justin Industries , a footwear and building materials manufacturer , for about $ 600 million .
Berkshire Hathaway said it would offer Justin shareholders $ 22 per share in cash , a 23 percent premium to Justin 's closing price of 17-7/8 on Nasdaq on Monday .
If the deal goes through , Justin will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway .
Company headquarters will remain in Fort Worth , Texas .
- - -
Thats one small hard drive : IBM is tripling the capacity -- but not the size -- of the world 's smallest hard disk drive , paving the way for a new generation of " go-anywhere " pervasive-computing devices and applications .
Packing 1 GB of data storage capacity on a disk the size of a quarter , IBM 's newest Microdrive brings affordable high-capacity , high-performance data storage to handheld electronic products .
The Microdrive is smaller than a matchbook , weighs less than an ounce and will be available for under $ 500 .
Limited quantities of the Microdrive will begin shipping in July to manufacturers and distributors .
Retail shipment is scheduled for September .
- - -
Big Three to invest : Compaq , Intel , and Microsoft are acquiring a $ 45 million equity stake in Digital Island , helping to fund an expansion of the Internet services company 's network capabilities .
Details of the investment , featuring three of the computer industry 's most powerful companies , were not disclosed .
San Francisco-based Digital Island provides Web hosting , content delivery , and other services that help companies with their Internet businesses .
- - -
Can n't beat 'em ?
Buy 'em : Computer Sciences agreed to buy Mynd , formerly known as Policy Management , for $ 568 million in a cash deal that the company said will enhance its ability to serve clients in the insurance and financial services industries .
The merger agreement comes five months after the computer-services provider filed suit against Policy Management , accusing the company of unfair competition and theft of trade secrets in the development of an insurance product .
- - -
Money & Money : Reynolds & Reynolds has agreed to sell its Information Solutions Group to the Carlyle Group for $ 360 million cash .
The company , which provides computer systems and services for the auto and health-care markets , also said its board voted to increase the number of shares in its buyback program by 5 million to 6.7 million shares .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Oh , Mir !
I 'm a Cosmonaut !

WASHINGTON -- For just $ 20 million , you could be a Russian cosmonaut .
MirCorp , a fledgling Netherlands firm , hopes it can persuade wealthy Americans to sign up for trips to the aging Russian space station .
Flights to Mir are scheduled to begin in 2001 , with an exact mission schedule to be released at the company 's next board meeting in July , MirCorp officials said at an event Monday morning at the National Press Club .
The company 's first citizen candidate is Dennis Tito , a former U.S. space program engineer and founder of the Santa Monica , California-based investment consulting firm Wilshire Associates .
MirCorp is the unlikely result of a unusual mix of people and events : a cash-starved Russian government , an all-but-abandoned space station and some extremely well-heeled investors eager to privatize space .
" Our program is but one element of MirCorp 's broad-based business plan , " said MirCorp President Jeffery Manber , who cited immediate benefits from the program to the pharmaceutical , weather tracking , satellite imagery , and Internet technology industries . "
MirCorp was founded on the belief that wonderful things can happen in space by unleashing the private sector 's imagination . "
Make that 40 percent private-sector imagination .
The rest of the company is still owned by RSC Energia , the Russian space system 's manufacturer that originally built and operated Mir .
MirCorp , in lieu of letting the Russian space station fall back down to Earth , came to terms on a lease deal with RSC Energia that allows them to oversee all aspects of the commercial use of the station , from the establishment of business conditions to the completion of a client 's activity on board . "
We 're allowing companies , or countries , that might not have had a space program a chance to have one through the private sector , " said Kevin Wallace , senior vice president and chief financial officer at MirCorp .
And so hot off the heels of the private sector 's highly publicized victory in the quest to conquer to genetic frontier , it now has the lead in capitalizing on the final frontier . "
Everybody has been talking about this with NASA and the ISS , " said Dr. Chirinjeev Kathuria , a MirCorp board member , referring to the International Space Station . "
But what they have to remember is that the technology they are talking about there is five years out .
We , however , are ready to do this more or less now . "
Odds are that one interested potential client-to-be is space entrepreneur Dennis Wingo , founder and CEO of the Alabama-based Sky Corp.
Wingo is proposing an ambitious network of Internet satellites made from off-the-shelf Macintoshes and a variation of Apple 's Airport technology .
Wingos vision is a constellation of satellites for accessing the Internet at high speed from almost anywhere on the globe .
If Wingo 's prototype satellite launches , it will become the world 's first orbiting Web server , covering 90 percent of the Earth 's surface , Wingo told Wired News earlier this month .
Another space cowboy who might want to check out MirCorp is Robert Bigelow , owner and operator of Budget Suites of America , which proposes a $ 2 billion-plus lunar-orbiting hotel that will cater to 100 passengers and carry a crew of 50 .




It 's a Wireless World in Japan

TOKYO -- Japan is increasingly embracing the Internet as a part of everyday life , but the world 's second-largest economy is doing so in its own way .
More than a third of Net surfers access the Web using wireless technology .
The explosive growth of Internet-compatible mobile phones , where users browse the Web on a screen the size of a business card , is being credited for the doubling of Internet usage in Japan in 1999 .
One in five Japanese -- just over 27 million people -- has an Internet connection , according to a report issued on Tuesday by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications .
MPT
Industry data shows about 10 million logged on through mobile connections , 13 percent of the population or penetration rate .
Private analysts have cautioned that government data tends to underestimate Internet usage because of its rapid growth .
The number of users is expected to triple to 76.7 million by 2005 , three-fifths of Japan 's population , according to the MPT .
By comparison , the United States , which has roughly twice the population of Japan , is said to already have more than 100 million Internet users , a penetration rate of about 40 percent .
Japan is a study in contrasts , where its reputation as a leading industrial power was once at risk of being tarnished because of its tardy entry into the Internet age .
But by leveraging its expertise in miniaturization and the high rate of mobile phone usage , Japan has spawned a new industry based on Internet-compatible cellular phones .
Two out of every five Japanese now owns a mobile phone , and last year , the number of mobile phone subscribers outstripped the number of conventional land lines .
By 2005 , nearly 80 million Japanese are seen subscribing to some form of mobile service , the MPT report estimated .
The next step for Japan would be to transform such growth into a vibrant e-commerce market .
The MPT survey estimated the Internet market for finished goods was worth 350 billion yen in 1999 and projected a 20-fold surge by 2005 .
$ 3.3 billion
That still pales in comparison to the U.S. e-commerce market for finished goods , which was estimated at $ 340 billion in 1999 .
Japan 's mobile Internet-access market , however , is trapped within its archipelago , since its systems are not compatible with wireless systems overseas like the GSM standard .
Global System for Mobile Communications
In a move that will open its markets and allow it to export and move into overseas markets , Japan plans to adopt the new WCDMA mobile phone standard next spring , which will make its cellular phones compatible with those in other countries using the standard .
Wideband Code Division Multiple Access
Despite the popularity of mobile phones in Japan , the MPT survey showed it still lagged other nations , such as Hong Kong , South Korea , Singapore , and Scandinavia -- all of which use the GMS standard .
Internet growth in Japan could have come much sooner and its obstructive telecommunications infrastructure is partly to blame .
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. controls more than 90 percent of local lines connecting homes and businesses .
NTT
Such domination , analysts say , has made it more expensive for Internet users to surf the Web at home .
Ironically , it was NTT 's more innovative mobile phone subsidiary , NTT DoCoMo , that played a major role in stimulating Internet usage by developing an easier and more cost-effective way to browse the Web on mobile phones .
But NTT is under ever-increasing pressure .
The United States has put NTT 's interconnection charges at the center of its latest trade dispute with Japan , demanding the giant carrier slash its interconnection fees .
Both sides are reportedly hoping to settle the issue before a U.S.-Japan summit expected around July 20 , just before the Group of Eight Okinawa summit , which Japan has been touting as the " IT Summit . "
NTT has already bowed to some pressure and last month halved its flat-rate unlimited Internet access fee .
If the Japanese telecommunication market is opened wider to foreign competition , NTT 's rates could come down even more and spur further growth .




British Telecom : We Own Linking

For years , British Telecom says it tolerated the royalty-free use of a technology it patented in 1989 , but recently it had a change of heart and decided it was time to collect .
Last week its lawyers sent out letters to the top Internet service providers in the United States , alerting them they 'd best begin discussions for licensing the technology , referred to in BT 's patent as " an information handling system in which information is derived from a computer at a remote point and transmitted via the public telephone network to terminal apparatus . "
Translated from patent speak , BT explained , that means " hyperlink . "
That 's right , hyperlinks , the bits of coded , colored text on Web pages that connect them to other Web pages ; the things you click on when you 're surfing ; the connective strands that hold together the World Wide Web .
British Telecom believes it has the patent for hyperlinks .
patent No. 4,873,662
It wants to be paid .
" What we expect is that ISPs will do the decent thing and take licenses for our intellectual property that they 're using , " said Simon Craven , a spokesman for British Telecom . "
We 're looking for reasonable royalties on revenues that they 're enjoying from our technology . "
Earthlink , one the top U.S. ISPs , confirmed it had been contacted by BT about licensing hyperlinks , but declined comment pending legal review of BT 's demand .
The average bloke with a Web page need n't fear a knock from a BT rep , the company said .
" Clearly that would be nonsensical , " a company official said
BT instead will limit its licensing demands to deep-pocketed Net service providers .
" You look to the places where the predominant revenues are flowing , " Craven said
Meanwhile , news of BT 's patent claims , first published in a report by Agence France Press , touched off a firestorm of outrage online .
Tech-savvy posters at geek news forum Slashdot railed against BT for trying to enforce what they feel is an overly broad patent , while blasting the patent system for granting overly broad patents in the first place .
" This is absolutely amazing , " fumed one poster . "
Next thing we know , we will have people trying to reinforce patents on toilet paper , and more .
When is this madness going to end ? "
Other posters claimed that hyperlink technology existed in the 1960s , long before BT filed for its patent in 1980 .
Called " prior art " in legal-speak , that technology would invalidate BT 's patent .
BT summarily rejects the claim of prior art . "
Basically , we are the prior art on this , " said Craven .
BT developed the technology itself in the 1970s , applied for it in 1980 , and received it in 1989 , he said .
It will be difficult to assess the validity of BT 's patent claim without seeing the exact language of its licensing demand , patent attorneys said , but at least one thought it was odd that BT would wait 11 years to begin enforcing a patent so integral to the Web .
" It 's going to take some study to see what this patent covers and does n't cover , " said Bob McAughan , a patent attorney for the law firm Howrey , Simon , Arnold & White . "
But I certainly think that people should have some raised eyebrows about why it took them so long to figure out they had a patent that applied to the Internet . "
" For some reason they 've now all of a sudden decided they 've got something .
I 'm not sure how much of this is profiteering , and how much is a legitimate issue . "
By waiting so long to enforce its patent , BT has legally forsaken any claims to back royalties , although it has n't given up claim to future payments .
And it 's just possible that there might be future payments , said Carl Oppedahl , a patent attorney and partner at Oppedahl & Larson .
At first blush , the patent looks as though it might indeed cover computers connected to the Web by a standard modem and phone line , he said .
" It 's very interesting .
If a court upheld the patent , it would have profound effects on the Web , " he said .
BT shrugs off the implications .
It has lots of patents ; it enforces lots of patents -- that 's what companies with patents do .
" Really , it 's all just in the course of business doing business , " said Craven .




Green Site Short on Greenbacks

Verde Media , a website catering to environmentally minded Americans that launched just two months ago , is already suffering from the same malady that has affected a number of other Net content companies in recent months .
The site , a hybrid of environment-related news and commerce , laid off its editorial and production staff last week , several former employees and contractors confirmed .
Executives at the company refused to confirm or deny whether any positions were cut .
The last news posted on the site was dated last Tuesday .
June 13
Chris Clarke , a former assignment editor at Verde , attributed the company 's troubles in part to an increasingly conservative investment climate .
" I think a site like Verde had an important mission , but I think also it was unlikely to generate any profit for a couple of years . "
Clarke said .
The San Francisco based company , which launched its site in mid-April , had pitched itself as an online portal for the green movement .
Besides publishing stories from its own staff of reporters and editors , Verde formed partnerships with such nonprofit groups as Earth Day Network , the Sierra Club , and the National Wildlife Federation to get access to information on environmental issues .
To bring in cash , the company sold green-friendly products like solar-powered lights , water purifiers , and chemical-free cosmetics .
Verde got its startup cash from several deep-pocketed backers , including Ted Turner and other Turner family members ; Island Records founder Chris Blackwell , and venture firms Gryphon Investments , Lehman Venture Capital , Canterbury Mezzanine Capital , and East River Ventures .
The company 's founder is Peek Garlington , III , Turner 's son-in-law , who was involved in LastMinuteTravel.com and several Internet startups .
Verde amassed a staff of about fifty that included several prominent environmental journalists .
It had plans to distribute its content in print and radio outlets as well as through the Internet and television broadcasts .
On April 18 , the site debuted with the usual first-day fanfare typical of new Net companies .
In its launch announcement , the company dubbed its mission as " creating the world 's largest environmental channel . "
Executives at Verde did n't offer any reason for why the site may have changed course .
Possible , the company found its plans were too ambitious in today 's increasingly sober Internet investment climate .
" Unfortunately , I think Verde found themselves in a situation where they built the business on models that had been created a year ago , " said a former employee , who asked to remain anonymous .
A few months ago , when investors were still infatuated with all things dot-com , it was considered acceptable for Net startups to spend heavily in their first few weeks to get their name out .
Now , with dot-com stocks on the wane , it 's not so easy for companies to get fresh investments when they run out of cash .
Verde is n't the only online media company that 's run into trouble lately .
Criminal justice news site APBnews.com shut down earlier this month , then announced Monday it was reviving the site with a skeleton staff .
Around the same time , Web publisher Salon.com laid off 13 employees and shuttered its Seattle bureau .
Just before that , Newswatch.org , a nonprofit media criticism site , closed after failing to secure additional funding .
The rash of closures and downsizings did n't come as a surprise to many in the chaotic business of online content production .
Given the sheer volume of new sites that launched over the past year , it seemed likely that not all would survive .
" A year ago we had companies having money heaped on them to go out and establish an audience , " Paul Grabowicz , director of the new media program at UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism , said .
" It 's just obvious that at some point there 's going to be a consolidation because you can n't have 10 sites all providing content about the same narrow area and have them all be economically sustainable . "




Inheritor of the PCI Legacy

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
The long-anticipated next generation of server technology is one step closer to reality with Tuesday 's announcement by IBM Microelectronics of new chips that can turn a network of multiple PCs and peripherals into one high-performance cluster computer .
The chips are based on a technology called InfiniBand , which was formerly referred to by the working name of System I/O .
InfiniBand is being developed by the InfiniBand Trade Association , which is backed by both IBM and Intel .
Its goal is a new input/output specification to replace the current PCI and PCI-X technology .
Consumers will be able to move large volumes of data between network components faster and more efficiently , advocates of the new spec say .
PCI technology appeared on PCs in late 1993 , providing a high-speed data path between the CPU and peripheral devices .
But the PCI " bridge , " while still reliable , is having a hard time spanning the ever-increasing streams of data , said David Anderson of Anderson Consulting .
PCI was great at first , Anderson said , but now its limitations only constrain fast computers feeding information through a network .
The idea behind InfiniBand is to clear the network by refining the way that data is processed and passed between storage devices .
The technology essentially puts a miniature data-moving network inside computers and peripherals , Anderson said .
Three versions of InfiniBand are planned : one that can transfer data at the rate of 500 MB per second , one at 2 GB per second , and one at 6 GB per second .
The system will include versions for copper wires and optical-fiber connections .
InfiniBand utilizes switched-fabric interconnects to move data quickly from server CPUs to peripherals .
" The ' fabric ' in ' switched-fabric ' refers to the connectors , cables , and switches that provide a fat data pipeline , " Anderson said . "
The idea is to use networking concepts to move data into and out of a series of computers , as opposed to relying on the now-standard single input/output card and slot configuration . "
Jim Bowers , an architecture marketing manager at IBM Microelectronics , said that moving away from a legacy shared bus , such as PCI/PCI-X , to a switched network offers many advantages .
" The heart of any InfiniBand-compliant component is a series of 2.5 Gbs serial links that can be combined in configurations of 1x , 4x , and 12x ports , " Bowers said . "
InfiniBand provides a high performance , multi-use interface with minimal CPU utilization .
This architecture also permits transparent sharing of system resources ... and will support both copper and fiber implementations . "
The first three products under development are a host channel adapter , a target channel adapter , and a switch that will provide simultaneous communication for up to eight servers and peripherals using 4x InfiniBand technology .
IBM is sharing preliminary specifications with system developers so they can begin designing systems based on the InfiniBand chip .
The company expects its supporting series of chip products to become available sometime next year .




Vivendi 's Quest to Unwire Music

LOS ANGELES -- With its nearly $ 30 billion deal to buy Seagram Co. Ltd. , French media and utility group Vivendi is hoping to make a hit with music for the wireless world .
Vivendi 's deal to buy Seagram , Canada 's liquor and entertainment giant , may not rock the music world right now , but highlights what many experts believe will be the next big thing -- wireless distribution of digital music .
Unlike Seagram 's 1998 purchase of PolyGram records for $ 10.4 billion -- which made Seagram 's Universal Music Group the world 's biggest record company -- the deal by Vivendi and its Canal Plus pay TV unit is expected to have minimal impact on daily operations at the unit , home to stars like Sheryl Crow , Enrique Iglesias and Elton John .
In the latest merger to marry a technology company with a content provider , Vivendi hopes to distribute Seagram 's holdings in films and music over its vast mobile telephone network in France , its new pan-European Internet portal , called Vizzavi , and its wireless Internet services in Europe .
With the music industry already in flux due to the Internet , many industry members see the future of digital music delivery in wireless technology that will enable fans to hear their favorite songs via the Internet on portable devices .
Several experts said the Vivendi/Seagram deal will crank up the momentum in this rapidly evolving arena .
" It may turn out to be extremely good for Vivendi to pick up the biggest record company in the world on the eve of a huge change in the industry , " said Dave Goldberg , chief executive officer of Internet music company Launch Media Inc.
" This deal says somebody is putting a lot of value on copyrights and that the music business is not going away .
The business model will change , but music companies will figure out how to make profits on the Internet , " he said .
Vivendi chairman Jean-Marie Messier , who will lead the combined company , has stressed the importance of Seagram 's musical assets in the deal .
" The music business is characterized by low capital employed , strong profitability , low volatility and a formidable potential on the Internet , " Messier said at a recent press conference .
For his part , Seagram chairman Edgar Bronfman Jr , a songwriter who has long shown greater enthusiasm for music than for film , will become vice chairman of the new company , with the music and Internet businesses reporting to him .
Several industry experts were skeptical about whether Bronfman would be satisfied in a diminished role in a company not owned by his family .
He had reportedly been hunting for a merger to ensure distribution of Seagram 's content in the wake of America Online 's planned acquisition of Time Warner Inc.




Cash-Fat Dot Coms See Stock Drop

Last November , the future looked awfully bright to Jeff Pucci .
The company he chairs , SmarterKids.com had just raised $ 63 million in an IPO , and the much-vaunted " Christmas of e-commerce " was just around the corner .
Smarterkids , which sells children 's educational books , software , and toys , had nowhere to go but up .
Of course , that was then .
Since then , Pucci has watched SmarterKid 's stock plunge into the abyss along with the rest of its e-commerce brethren .
When the market closed Tuesday , SmarterKid 's market cap had shriveled from $ 350 million to just $ 32 million .
That 's a nasty , perplexing slide for any executive to swallow .
But for Pucci it 's even more baffling , because at $ 32 million , his company is valued at some $ 15 or so million less than the IPO cash remaining in its coffers .
" It 's beyond frustrating , " said Pucci , who notes that even with all debts and liabilities figured in , SmarterKids still trades well below its cash asset value . "
None of us ever thought we 'd see these levels in the equity prices .
It 's astonishing . "
It 's also quite common .
More than a dozen public Net companies , mostly content and e-commerce sites like Fashionmall.com and Mothernature.com , now trade at or below the value of their check books -- in some cases , way below .
The very same companies that last year raised eye-popping piles of cash in IPOs at the height of market mania are , in many cases , the ones whose stocks took the hardest hit in the recent selloff .
" There are so many companies that are having 50 percent off stock sales , " said Lawrence York , portfolio manager of the WWW Internet Fund . "
We just got done looking at Fashionmall.com .
They had $ 5 cash-on-hand per share , and the stock 's trading at $ 2 a share . "
Executives at many of those companies now desperately make pitches to institutional investors , insisting that , by any measure , their stocks are screaming bargains .
" I 've had a number of calls from companies in which their cash is more than their sale price , " said Paul Cook , portfolio manager of the Munder Net fund . "
They call , pushing the stock , trying to stir up interest . "
But Cook is n't interested , even if he could buy cold hard cash for a few bright shiny pennies on the dollar : " The problem is , the cash is going in the wrong direction , and quickly . "
In other words , there 's no way to extract the cash value before the average dot com 's management burns it up .
" Unless you can step in and buy the whole thing and shut them down , do n't do it , " he said .
Pucci takes umbrage at investors ' wholesale rejection of his sector , but he holds out hope that the current mood could be a disguised blessing for cash-rich companies like his .
" It 's bad because we 're being lumped in with everybody else and written off , " he said . "
It 's good because a lot of our competitors have gone under already . "
" The bottom line is , electronic commerce is n't going away , " Pucci said . "
E-commerce is growing .
Customers are going to go someplace . "
Thus , if SmarterKids can afford to stick around while its competitors bail out , customers will n't have any place to go except to SmarterKids .
Surely that promise , plus the technology , brand equity , and management team SmarterKids has mustered must be worth something , Pucci said .
At least it must be worth more than less than nothing .
" There are a lot of proprietary assets and technology that 's being valued at zero , " Pucci said . "
You 're valuing everything we 've built at zero . "




MP3 For Home and Away

Thomson Multimedia announced a series of new MP3 digital audio RCA entertainment products for using MP3 music outside the PC .
The new RCA products , unveiled Tuesday at the MP3 Summit 2000 conference , included an MP3 personal CD player , an MP3 5-disc CD bookshelf audio system , a hard-disk based Digital Media Manager appliance , and two new portable MP3 players including an updated Lyra .
The portable RD1000 is a $ 150 MP3 audio device about the size of a matchbox that can store 32 megabytes of music , and the new Lyra 2 is a slimmer version that adds a USB interface and car adapter .
The Digital Media Manager device displays cover art and track information on a TV and has an internal hard drive capable of storing more than 2,000 songs in MP3 format .
The device will be available later this year and will play DVDs , CDs , MP3 files .
Let the music flow : Music retail chain Musicland has chosen Liquid Audio to add digital downloads to Musicland 's destination sites , including SamGoody.com , Suncoast.com , OnCue.com and MediaPlay.com .
Liquid Audio 's Retail Integration and Fulfillment System will allow Musicland to promote and sell Internet singles with CD-quality sound , online lyrics , liner notes , and album art in multiple formats .
RIFFS
Label takes on Napster : A new website targeting online pirates with the oh-so-subtle name StopNapster.com has just gone online .
Sponsored by the band Tabloids , the website is intended to give small labels and bands " a voice on the Internet about Napster 's potentially destructive effects on their careers . "
" The Tabloids obviously will take a considerable amount of heat from Napster supporters , even some major label artists , " said Tracy Robinson , owner of the Oakland-based Tabloids ' independent record label , Endless Loop Records , in a statement .
Croon along with MP3s : MP3 and sing-along Karaoke have been combined on MP3Karaoke.com , which allows a PC or Web-enabled TV to serve as a home Karaoke machine .
The site includes free downloads of music ranging from current artists like Beck and Hanson to old favorites Elvis Presley and Abba .




Patent Seeks to Collect on Data

TeleDynamics , a small Florida company , said its newly awarded patent has major import for -- well , just about any automated service that gathers user information and passes it to someone else .
The company said its patent award has " sweeping " ramifications for Internet , telephone , and wireless Web services .
" The ramification would be the prospect of licensing the product across the board , " said Monte Sims , CEO of TeleDynamics .
Few information services in the Internet , wireless , and 800-number industries would not be affected , he said .
The patent applies to " interactive lead generation " and covers just about any automated information practice in which a company harvests a customer 's information and then provides it to a third party .
That means services collecting user info over the Internet or via toll-free telephone numbers could find themselves in the patent 's legal crosshairs .
News of the award comes as the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office fends off attacks for issuing patents to applicants who are not the inventors .
On Monday , British Telecom was under fire for moving to protect an old patent on hyperlinking , one of the most basic functions of the Web .
But patent watchers like Carl Oppedahl point out that each patent has to be taken on its own merits , and it 's not always right to condemn each broad-sounding Internet-related patent as bogus .
Oppedahl said he could n't judge the worthiness of TeleDynamics claims until the patent is published .
The Patent Office has yet to publis the patent -- it has only notified TeleDynamics that the patent will be awarded .
Oppedahl added that the Patent Office has been unfairly criticized for issuing an unusually large number of bad Internet-age patents .
While it may happen , he said , bad patents are no more of a problem now than they have ever been .
It remains to be seen exactly which processes are actually described in the still-unpublished TeleDynamics patent , and of those , which are commonly used online -- especially since much information collected on the Web remains in the form of anonymous cookies , rather than specific names and numbers .
The issue of identifying and tracking Web users by name is , in fact , one of the key concerns in the ongoing debate over Internet privacy .
Still , TeleDynamics thinks it is first in patenting the so-called automated " lead-generation " process -- and the company envisions a lucrative future loaded with licensing deals based on the new patent award .
Sims said companies are already inquiring about the patent .




Make Way for New Net Era

DENVER -- The Internet may be great , but you ai n't seen nothing yet .
At least that 's the message from Microsoft chairman Bill Gates , who was upbeat when he addressed a technology conference here on Tuesday despite a setback for his company in the federal government 's landmark antitrust lawsuit .
MSFT
Gates said the Internet is now entering its next stage of development , ushering in an era where software will be written that will take the initiative in visiting hundreds of websites and collecting information .
The Internet will become the platform , he predicted .
" If you 're a buyer , it will find thousands of sellers .
If you 're planning a new product it will go to all those different websites to bring things in , " Gates told about 2,800 people at the Colorado Technology Summit 2000 , sponsored by Governor Bill Owens and the Governor 's Commission on Science and Technology .
" You will be annotating and editing and creating around information that comes from the Web .
In a technical sense this is the Web for profit , " Gates said .
" We call this the next generation of the Web , " he said .
Redmond , Washington-based Microsoft was scheduled to unveil later this week what it has called its biggest strategic announcement in five years .
Gates made no mention of the federal government 's lawsuit against his company nor of Tuesday 's move by the judge in the case who sent Microsoft 's appeal directly to the U.S. Supreme Court .
The action could mean a resolution in the case might come as soon as next year , and could result in Microsoft being split into two companies .
Instead Gates focused on how much better computers will get .
The keyboard , the main way now of using computers , will be relegated to the sidelines in some cases , he said . "
We can take handwriting , we can take speech and use that as a way of interacting , " he said .
Computers down the road will be equipped with microphones , providing real-time communication for users , making it easier to ask for maps or diagrams , he predicted .
He said broadband , high-speed communications will be another cog in the wheel , making the Internet faster and better .
He also predicted that data will become " 100 percent digital " over the next five years . "
In business the relationship -- the contract -- will be done in digital form , " he said .




Peanuts and Email

In-Flight Network said Wednesday it would join with Qualcomm and satellite provider Globalstar to offer Net access and email on commercial flights .
In-Flight , a joint venture of media giant News Corp. and Rockwell Collins -- which makes aviation electronics -- said it would be able to provide low-cost , high-speed services by early next year .
In April , Boeing said it would offer access to the Internet and television over a high-speed satellite network on its planes .
Partners in the Boeing " Connexion " service are CNN , CNBC , Mitsubishi , and Loral Skynet .
- - -
Flying Solo : Continental Airlines said Wednesday it may continue to fly solo , despite consolidation trends in the industry .
Chief Executive Gordon Bethune rejected reports that Continental and rival Delta held discussions about merger proposals that have recently emerged within the U.S. airline industry .
He said there had been " chit-chat at cocktail parties " about what might happen in the industry following the proposed takeover of U.S. Airways by United Airlines , but that had been all .
- - -
Hold On , WorldCom : The European Commission said it was too early to speculate on whether it would block the $ 115 billion merger between U.S. telecoms giants WorldCom and Sprint .
The Washington Post reported that the commission , the European Union 's antitrust watchdog , planned to block the deal at its July 5 meeting , after concluding it would place too much of the Internet within the new group 's control .
The commission 's competition department is due to consult experts from the 15 EU countries on its plans on Thursday .
The final decision will only be taken by the full 20-member commission , probably at its weekly meeting on July 5 .
- - -
Intel Bump : Intel said it would take a charge in the second quarter of about $ 200 million , or 2 cents per share adjusted for a pending two-for-one stock split , to cover the remaining costs of the recall .
The charges reflect the estimated costs of replacing defective Intel motherboards -- the internal chassis that hold memory components in personal computers -- as part of a program announced May 10 .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Building a Smarter Circuit

Blending neurobiology with computer design , scientists have created artificial neurons on a silicon chip , a step that may lead to everything from better artificial-vision systems for robots and computers to better prosthetic eyes and ears for humans .
Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Lucent Technologies ' Bell Labs made the chip from a network of neuron-like circuits that behave in many ways like cells in the brain .
The chip -- believed to be the first hybrid digital and analog electronic circuit -- has been hailed as a breakthrough in " neuromorphic " engineering .
The chip , which is described in a cover story in the June 22 issue of Nature , was constructed out of ordinary transistors arranged into a ring-shaped network of 16 artificial neurons and the synaptic connections between them .
Each neuron connects to four of its neighbors , and like their biological counterparts , tends to fire when receiving incoming impulses .
But the neurons also are connected to a central inhibitory neuron , which acts as a regulator .
The regulator keeps the circuit from working itself into an uncontrolled chain reaction of neuronal firings , the researchers said .
" If there was only positive feedback , this thing would blow itself to death , " said co-creator Rahul Sarpeshkar , an assistant professor of electrical engineering and computer science at MIT .
The negative feedback also allows the artificial neurons to amplify or suppress their firings according to the behavior of their neighbors , a distinctly analog trait that until now has been seen only in biological computers like the brain .
Computers , which perform calculations in the binary logic of ones and zeros -- on or off -- are purely digital .
Biological computers , however , blend digital and analog processing .
In the brain , nerve cells fire in response to impulses received from their neighbors -- a digital response -- but frequently the nerve 's response is modulated by factors like the delay between a pair of input signals , an analog process that could n't be readily mimicked by digital circuits -- until now .
" It 's a hybrid of digital and analog , " Sarpeshkar said . "
You do n't see that in electronics today . "




Luxury Giant Is Finally Online

In the image-conscious world of luxury retailing , Bernard Arnault has a rule : Never underestimate the power of a prestige brand .
Over the last decade , the CEO of LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton has played a key role in transforming the company from a struggling string of status brands into the largest luxury goods empire in the world .
LVMHY
In the process , the Paris-based company that owns such status manufacturers as Louis Vuitton , Christian Dior , and Dom Perignon saw its stock market worth balloon to over $ 40 billion .
Arnault himself netted a few billion in paper wealth .
But so far , the golden touch of France 's reigning luxury tycoon has n't reached online .
Over the past two years , Arnault poured hundreds of millions of dollars into Internet startups in the United States and Europe , hoping to build an online investment powerhouse to rival his luxury empire .
The results have been mixed .
His biggest investment vehicle -- Europ@web , a fund that owns stakes in more than 30 Internet ventures , most of them private -- surprised the investment community this week when it failed to follow through with plans for an IPO filing .
Meanwhile , some of Arnault 's other investments in Net commerce players , including the ill-fated Boo.com , tanked .
This time around , Arnault focuses on what he knows best : selling luxury goods .
On Monday , Arnault 's Europ@web and LVMH launched eLuxury , a website devoted to selling goods from LVMH 's vast stable of pricey brands .
The launch marks the first time LVMH has permitted most of the luxury manufacturers it owns to sell on the Net .
At first glance , the venture might not seem a particularly radical move for LVMH , but eLuxury CEO Alain Lorenzo insists that there was much soul-searching before taking the plunge over concerns that going on the Web might tarnish the elite image of LVMH .
" What characterizes the luxury world is people are paranoid about their brand image , " said Lorenzo , formerly chief executive of Parfums Givenchy .
To get backing for his website , Lorenzo had to reassure manufacturers that the presentation online of their high-end products would reflect the renowned names and lofty price tags .
Unlike just about every other retailer , luxury-goods manufacturers are notoriously cautious about selling their wares online .
Although they might sell a greater volume of products , luxury brands worry about lessening their prestige by selling through a venue as mundane as a website .
Hence the preference of luxury lines for showcasing their pricey trinkets in velvet cases in exclusive boutiques serviced by ultra-attentive staff . "
They are supposed to be promoting the luxury lifestyle , " said Heather Dougherty , digital commerce analyst at Jupiter Communications .




Bloody Good Wireless

BT Cellnet launched the world 's first " always-on " mobile network on Thursday , introducing GPRS technology that is expected to revolutionize the way people use the Internet .
Britain 's second largest mobile operator is initially making GPRS , or general packet radio service , available only to businesses , allowing travelling workers to form wireless connections between their laptops and their head office computers .
But consumers will get access to the technology by the first quarter of next year , with the launch of mobile handsets that are permanently connected to the Internet .
Users will be able to access WAP websites and receive email without first having to dial into an Internet service .
wireless application protocol
Analysts say GPRS phones will initially run at speeds approaching twice that of dial-up computer connections -- a smaller improvement than claimed by the industry -- but will get much faster in time .
GPRS is expected to encourage computer-phobic people onto the Internet , and analysts predict wireless devices will overtake computers as the most popular way of connecting to the Web by 2003 .
- - -
Smart move by Dummies : IDG Books Worldwide , the publisher of the best-selling " For Dummies " books , has reached an agreement with iUniverse.com to use the latter 's technology platform , a move that has long-term ramifications for the publishing industry .
The relationship is significant in that a major publisher has opened the door for customization of titles that have mass appeal .
Consumers will soon have the ability to dynamically assemble custom books and obtain standard titles in a wide variety of formats , including print and leading e-book media .
John Kilcullen , chairman and chief executive officer of IDGB said , " This partnership will allow consumers to selectively mix and match content from hundreds of books and put them into new , custom printed or digital versions . "
- - -
Online space network : Carl Sagan 's widow has her eyes on the stars again .
Ann Druyan has joined Joe Firmage , a venture capitalist and co-founder of USWeb , to launch a new media network focused on space and science .
The new company , which is code-named Planet Voyager , has raised $ 23 million in seed financing by Softbank Venture Capital and Crosspoint Ventures .
Firmage is chairman and CEO of the new company .
Druyan , widow of the late astronomer , author , and television personality , heads up the studio division .
The company plans to have a name by late summer and launch internationally later in the year .
- - -
Kozmo layoffs : Kozmo.com , which operates a one-hour delivery service for goods purchased online , laid off 24 employees , or about 5 percent of its salaried workers , at the company 's corporate headquarters in New York last week .
A company spokesman described the layoffs as a reorganization aimed at " fine tuning " the business .
The layoffs , which did not target a specific sector of the company , occurred across all divisions .
Kozmo.com , which filed for an IPO in March , said it believes the layoffs will not affect its planned public offering .
However , the company declined to explain the timing of the offering .
Kozmo.com employs roughly 2,600 people , the majority of whom are hourly staff .
- - -
Eating up Nabisco : Carl Icahn offered to pay $ 28 a share , or about $ 8.26 billion , for the remaining stock he does not already own in Nabisco Group Holdings , according to a SEC filing made Thursday .
Under the proposed bid , Icahn and his shareholder group offered to pay $ 19 a share in cash and a two-year , 14 percent note worth $ 9 a share .
Nabisco Group holds about an 80 percent stake in Nabisco Holdings Corp. , the maker of Oreo cookies and Ritz crackers .
The food unit is Nabisco Group 's sole asset .
Reuters contributed to this report




A Healthy Bounce for Handspring

Handspring Inc. did n't do nearly as well as rival Palm in its stock market debut .
Market analysts say that 's probably a good thing .
Shares of Handspring , the second handheld device maker to go public this year , rose 35 percent in first-day trading Wednesday .
HAND
The Mountain View , California company started by former Palm executives priced its shares at $ 20 .
The stock price rose to $ 28.25 before dipping to close at $ 26.94 .
That performance did n't set any IPO records .
It certainly did n't come close matching the stock market debut of Palm , Handspring 's arch-competitor , which more than doubled in first-day trading .
PALM
However , analysts said Handspring came in well ahead of expectations , now dampened by the after-market performance of many high-tech flyers .
" Even though its 35 percent gain is pretty weak compared to the screamers we saw at the height of the IPO market , this debut is an unqualified success , " said George Nichols , IPO analyst at Morningstar.com .
Investors have grown considerably more gun-shy in recent months about putting money in new stock offerings , Nichols said .
It 's no longer common for stocks to double or triple in first-day trading as they did earlier this year .
Given the changing investment climate , he says Handspring 's success in completing a $ 200 million offering is impressive .
David Menlow , president of IPOfinancial.com , was relieved that Handspring investors are n't poised to repeat the ill-fated IPO history of Palm .
Shares of Palm soared as high as $ 140 in first-day trading in March , but then plummeted , hovering around $ 27 in recent days .
Because Handspring 's first day run-up is much smaller , its stock price is likely to be more sustainable over the long term .
" There 's not going to be this false embrace that we saw with Palm , " Menlow said .




Musicians , Go Home

SAN DIEGO -- Musicians and their managers are impeding technological advances that would curb digital music piracy , a wireless expert said Wednesday at a conference on music and the Internet .
Drawing rousing applause throughout his speech , Onehouse.com CEO Jim Griffin said the recording industry has created a digital world that is difficult to navigate and has failed to provide consumers with products they are willing to pay for .
" The refusal of artists and their management to put a price tag on their music , with a description of where that money will be going and whom we should make the check out to , and then responsibly collecting that money , has gotten in the way of progress , " Griffin said at the MP3 Summit here .
The problem is particular to the United States , Griffin said .
In the next 10 years , China and Africa will become leaders in the wireless world because those countries have n't focused on building cable networks for connectivity .
But Americans do n't see the value of wireless networks because they have n't seen how they work in places such as Finland and Japan , he said .
Instead , the music industry has focused its efforts on locking down music instead of creating new opportunities to distribute it .
" The business model that the music industry adopts must destroy the motive for piracy , " Griffin said , echoing the general theme of MP3.com CEO Michael Robertson 's opening remarks on Tuesday .
" The lawyers will n't solve this and the technologist will n't solve this piracy problem , " Griffin said . "
Anyway , anything that a 41-year-old thinks up , a 14-year-old can undo . "
The lack of consumer content , he said , has led to the sluggish development of wireless networks .
Samsung will be unveiling an MP3 phone at the end of the year that stores playlists , reproduces stereo-quality music , and has Web browsing capabilities .
A similar version of the phone has already been available in Korea for 18 months .
Meanwhile , the industry continues to miss out on the opportunities that wireless and digital technologies offer .
The average American spends about $ 4.40 a month on music , Griffin said .
So developing subscription models such as the $15-per-month models proposed by the Webnoize research report on Napster has a chance to grow the music industry from $ 40 billion worldwide to a projected $ 100 million .
Lydia Gable , senior vice president of marketing at digital media company Voquette , agreed that creating a ubiquitous digital network is important .
" Unless wireless is made easier , and put at a lower price point , there is n't going to be a real simple way for consumers to access their information , " Gable said .
The danger in not developing the networks and creating security to lock down information has the potential to do damage far beyond slowing the progress of the music industry , Griffin said .
" We must not use digital wrappers to lock up content based on the size of your wallet or the size of your parents ' wallet , " Griffin said . "
People should be able to get access to books , music , and information so that they can become everything that were meant to be . "
they




MS Unveils ' Dot-Net ' Strategy

REDMOND , Washington -- Bill Gates is catching up to the little guys .
Unveiling Microsoft 's vision of the future Thursday , Gates for the first time emphasized the Web browser as the central application of computing .
Echoing remarks made by counterparts Marc Andreessen and Scott McNealy four years ago , Gates said the network is even more important than the computer .
Gates , in his role as Microsoft 's chief software architect , rolled out a retooled company strategy that would integrate its software with the Internet and make it easier to swap information between computing devices .
Among the prototypes were computers that recognize voice and can answer back , a digital book and notepad that can recognize natural handwriting and connect to the Web , and cell phones that let users dictate email .
" The Internet is the starting point , " said Gates , and the Web browser is the " universal canvas " upon which the information landscape will be painted .
" It 's a bet-the-company thing , " Gates said , speaking to several hundred analysts at the Forum 2000 briefing in describing the " dot-net " initiative .
In the mid-1990s , when Netscape held a dominant share of the browser market , then-chief technician Andreessen championed the Web browser as the central computing application , an idea eschewed by Gates .
But now Microsoft has an overwhelming lead in Web browsers , and Gates is zealous in his support for the browser-centric universe .
Gates repeatedly emphasized that data has to be stored centrally to be made available to wireless devices , reminiscent of the mantra by Sun Microsystems ' McNealy , who said , " The network is the computer . "
Thursday 's announcement is " more analogous to the announcement of Windows than the Internet strategy announcement of 1995 , " Gates said . "
This is a new platform that will affect every piece of application code that is written . "
The international audience greeted the casually attired Gates with unusual silence , and withheld applause until a wireless demonstration nearly an hour into the program .
Gates described the dot-net platform as the company 's next generation of Web-centric Windows services , which shifts storing data in the company 's proprietary Office formats to open standards .




Hurricane Season Outlook : Linux

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Forecasters predict a wet , windy , and wild hurricane season .
Twelve major tropical storms are expected to roar across the Atlantic Ocean , eight of them likely to develop into hurricanes , which by definition have winds of 74 mph or more .
If that does n't scare you , maybe this will : The predicted " Hurricane Destruction Potential " is 100 ; the average season is 71 .
HDP
Aware that bad weather means heavy traffic , the Weather Channel 's Web site , weather.com , is battening down its hatches and switching to Linux-based IBM servers .
The site is changing to a new architecture that utilizes specialized hardware for each function it offers , Angela Herndon , public relations manager of weather.com , said .
" Today we have images , content , Web servers , and ads all running on multifunction boxes , " Herndon said . "
Our new architecture will have several layers with separate hardware for each function .
" Our image servers will now be running on 700 Mhz IBM Netfinity boxes running Apache Web servers , under the Linux operating system .
The price point is very competitive and the performance is excellent . "
Herndon also said that Linux is well suited to horizontal scalability , allowing weather.com to easily and quickly increase the number of visitors it can handle .
Adverse weather typically drives the number of weather.com visitors from an average of 4-5 million per day to over 25 million per day .
Scheduled to re-launch with Linux this fall , the new weather.com will also include planning tools to help people understand how the weather will affect activities such as travel , driving , outdoors , and skiing .
The site will offer expanded personalized features -- delivering information such as severe weather alerts directly to a user 's pager , Palm Pilot , Web phone , email , or personal Web page .




Court Says Anti-Smut Law Illegal

WASHINGTON -- A federal anti-smut law violates Internet free-speech rights , an appeals court ruled on Thursday .
The 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia upheld a lower court 's decision against the Child Online Protection Act , saying in a strongly-worded opinion that the measure was so unconstitutionally broad it affected even non-pornographic websites .
" To avoid liability under COPA , affected Web publishers would either need to severely censor their publications or implement an age or credit card verification system whereby any material that might be deemed harmful by the most puritan of communities in any state is shielded behind such a verification system , " a three-judge panel wrote in its decision .
" COPA essentially requires that every Web publisher subject to the statute abide by the most restrictive and conservative state 's community standards in order to avoid criminal liability , " they said .
The Clinton administration , which defended the law in court , can choose to appeal the loss to the Supreme Court or wait for a full trial before U.S. District Judge Lowell Reed Jr. , who in February 1999 barred the government from enforcing the criminal law .
The Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the latest decision .
" We 're delighted , " says Chris Hansen , a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union , which brought the suit in October 1998 .
" The real question is going to be what happens next : whether the government petitions for cert , whether the case is remanded for trial , or whether the case is effectively over , " Hansen said .
the Supreme Court
If anything , the Justice Department seems to be leaning toward asking for a trial .
In April , Wired News reported that government lawyers had contacted anti-filtering advocates and invited them to testify in any possible future proceedings .
During the preliminary injunction hearing before Reed , a hotly contested topic was whether or not COPA would outlaw innocuous material that an overzealous prosecutor might find to be " harmful to minors . "
Website operators , including PlanetOUT and Salon magazine , testified that they feared they would be harmed by the law .
" If a preliminary injunction were not to issue , COPA-affected Web publishers would most assuredly suffer irreparable harm -- the curtailment of their constitutionally protected right to free speech , " the appeals court said .
The Justice Department in April 1999 appealed Reed 's decision to grant the ACLU a preliminary injunction .




From Genomics to Eugenics ?

LONDON -- Scientists heralded a brave new world Monday but skeptics said a genetic breakthrough could usher in a sinister era of perfect people and death to the disabled .
" The further science goes , the further the worst case scenario goes , " Steve Jenkins , a spokesman for the Church of England , told Reuters . "
I 'm not anti-science but there is no way that God is now out of a job . "
He spoke after an international team of researchers said they had mapped 97 percent of the human genome -- the genetic makeup of the human body -- in a scientific accomplishment on a par with the discovery of penicillin or the lunar landing .
" This is the outstanding achievement not only of our lifetime but in terms of human history , " said Dr. Michael Dexter , whose Wellcome Trust funded the British arm of the project .
Carried out in 16 centers around the globe , the researchers have effectively whittled down the human body to a complex string of letters that should revolutionize the way doctors see the body and treat its shortfalls .
The potential benefits are huge : drugs tailor-made for individuals , predictive testing , improved understanding of disease , along with gene therapy to change built-in wrongs to right .
Others fear the possible misuse of science in man 's drive to create a perfect world and say few will benefit .
" It 's the difference between using genetics to correct something that has gone wrong and using them to create something considered perfect , " said Jenkins , who trained in science . "
The idea of designing humans from scratch along with the prospect of an enormous increase in abortion is not the world we want . "
While the scientists emphasized their so-called " book of life " was just the beginning of a long road ahead , doubters said it would benefit few and could turn out to be a giant step back to the sort of eugenics practiced in Nazi Germany .
" Mapping the human genome is a great human achievement , " Richard Nicholson , editor of the Bulletin of Medical Ethics , said . "
Like climbing Mount Everest , it will benefit few people , leaving most untouched .
But unlike climbing Mount Everest , it has the potential to damage large numbers of people . "
Designer babies could be created , flawed fetuses killed .
The stigma of being anything less than perfect could soar .
" Disabled people feel a responsibility to raise the alarm , " said Agnes Fletcher of the Royal Association for Disability and Rehabilitation . " ' New hope ' for disabled people is accompanied by the danger of disabled people and others experiencing increased discrimination in employment , insurance , healthcare provisions , and education . "
U.S. lawmakers have already raised the alarm about medical insurers screening out high-risk groups and employers passing over genetically flawed staff .
" Social policy must keep pace with science .
The abuse of genetic information must be prevented , " said New York Democrat Louise Slaughter , who is pushing for a bill to outlaw genetic discrimination .
Yet scientists say they are a long way from making sense of their new alphabet soup and putting it to practical use .
They point out that the anatomy of the heart was worked out in 1543 , while the first heart transplant did not come until 1967 .
Yet man has been dabbling in eugenics for centuries .
Plato 's Republic depicts a society chasing self-improvement through selective breeding while references to eugenic ideals appear as far back as the Old Testament .
English statistician Francis Galton took it further in 1869 by proposing a system of arranged marriages between men of distinction and women of wealth to produce a gifted race .
Indeed it was Galton who coined the term " eugenics , " and the American Eugenics Society took up his baton in 1926 by proposing restrictions on immigrants from " inferior " stock , along with sterilization for the insane , retarded , and epileptic .
The German Nazi party of the 1930s went to the wildest extremes , using eugenics to justify its attempted extermination of European Jews and other groups of people .




Why GM Is Going E-Crazy

BRESCIA , Italy -- General Motors Corp. has poured $ 1.6 billion into electronic commerce initiatives like the Covisint Internet supplier exchange as part of a four-year drive to integrate its e-business systems , executives of the world 's largest automaker said Thursday .
The broad " e-structuring " has generated $ 800 million in cost savings and helped drive down the automaker 's total information technology spending to $ 3.2 billion annually from $ 4 billion in 1996 , GM 's Chief Information Officer Ralph Szygenda told reporters and analysts from around the world at the end of a three-day company presentation here .
The Internet ventures , as well as related in-vehicle communications systems like OnStar , are set to pick up speed in the coming months and years as GM pushes to use its global breadth to grow sales and profits in new ways , Chief Executive Officer G. Richard Wagoner said .
Among the changes being made possible through Internet technology will be the ability to receive a custom-ordered car in 10-15 days by 2003 , said Harold Kutner , the company 's supply chief , who is overseeing GM 's participation in Covisint , the Internet buying exchange GM formed with Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler AG .
Kutner said research GM conducted has found that 80 percent of buyers would consider placing a specific order for a new vehicle if the wait-time were no longer than two months .
Currently , less than 10 percent of new car buyers in the United States custom-order a vehicle , usually opting to take what dealers have on their lots .
The number is higher in Europe , about 30 to 40 percent .
Although some automakers have discussed building special-order cars in three to five days , Kutner said many customers would be willing to wait longer to ensure they got the vehicle they want on a reliable date .
" We 're not emphasizing the time as much as the reliability , " he said .
Kutner added GM would have to cut its vehicle inventory by 50 percent and trim its 5,000 suppliers to streamline the system and get cars to customers faster .
Mark Hogan , president of GM 's e-commerce unit , said the company 's GM BuyPower Internet selling site is getting 2-1/2 times the number of " hits " in the United States of its Ford counterpart since a revamping of the site in April .
GM BuyPower will be rolled out to 16 countries by the end of this year .
The four-year-old OnStar , the communication system that allows drivers to make dinner reservations or call tow trucks from their cars , currently has 220,000 subscribers and is on pace to have 4 million by 2003 , Hogan said .
The company is on plan to add Internet and telephone links to OnStar later this year and is experiencing a 70 percent renewal rate from some of the early users in the Cadillac Escalade sport utility vehicle , Hogan said .
Wagoner estimated OnStar is " a few " years away from profitability , adding the company plans for now to keep ownership control , although he did not rule out a spinoff in the future .
" Today there 's no question it 's going to grow faster and realize greater potential if it 's part of GM , " he said .




The Valley 's Costly Power Cuts

SAN FRANCISCO -- When soaring temperatures and low electricity supplies force power cuts in Silicon Valley , as they did last week , economists estimate that it could cost the booming high-tech industry there at least $ 75 million a day .
The price tag for lost production in other industrial sectors throughout the San Francisco Bay Area , including oil refineries and pipelines , could run tens of millions of dollars daily .
" Silicon Valley must have a reliable supply of electricity to continue to be a strong economic force for California and the nation 's economy , " said Tapan Munroe , an economist who studies energy in the technology sector .
" We can expect a hit from $ 75 million up to $ 100 million a day in Silicon Valley if there is n't enough electricity to keep industry on line , " said Munroe , a former chief economist for Pacific Gas & Electric , California 's largest utility .
Measuring the economic impact of power shortages depends on a number of factors , among them the duration and timing of blackouts on design , engineering , and production cycles for computer hardware and software companies , Munroe said .
On June 14 , PG&E cut off electricity to more than 100,000 industrial , business , and residential customers in neighborhoods throughout the Bay Area in an attempt to prevent its power system from collapsing under the strain of a record heat wave .
Temperatures soared as high as 109 degrees Fahrenheit in San Jose , and San Francisco tied an all-time high of 103 degrees .
These emergency steps were taken after PG&E had already cut service to dozens of " interruptible " customers -- those industrial customers who buy power at discounted rates in exchange for power cuts whenever the load on the grid can not keep up with demand .
The blackouts led to temporary shutdowns at high-tech companies like Apple Computer , Advanced Micro Devices , and Solectron Corp. , according to the Silicon Valley Manufacturing Group , a trade organization .
Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystems voluntarily cut their use of electricity .
The trade group , which represents 175 companies , could not estimate the overall economic impact of the blackouts but noted that one unidentified company was shut down for three hours at a cost of $ 1 million an hour .
Such losses " are a very serious concern for the city of San Jose and Silicon Valley , " said Marty Woodworth , assistant director of economic development for San Jose .
" We need a solid power system , " he said .
Technology businesses are especially vulnerable because many require an uninterrupted flow of " high quality " electricity for manufacturing processes .
Some , like Oracle , are building their own backup power systems .
The power crisis also led to shutdowns of oil and fuel pipelines and restricted operations at major local oil refineries owned by Chevron and Equilon Enterprises , a joint venture between Texaco and Royal Dutch/Shell Oil .
California Governor Gray Davis has called on state regulators to investigate the recent power emergency .
The state Public Utilities Commission and the California Electricity Oversight Board are to report on the failures by August 1 .
The power industry is struggling to catch up with the region 's economic expansion and fast-growing demand for electricity .
While demand is increasing about 2 percent a year in all of California , it is surging about 5 percent annually in Silicon Valley , said Munroe .
" We have badly underestimated the strength of the digital economy and its need for electricity , " Munroe said . "
We must see the shortfall as a real emergency and rapidly develop new power plants and improve and expand the transmission and local distribution systems . "
Calpine Corp. , an independent power supplier based in San Jose , plans to add more than 2,500 megawatts of electricity to the market from four new plants in Northern California .
One megawatt can power about 1,000 homes .
But Calpine 's first plant will n't be operational until next year .
Moreover , Calpine 's plan to build a 600 megawatt plant in south San Jose was sharply opposed by Mayor Ron Gonzales because of its location near a residential neighborhood .
The California Energy Commission will decide the plant 's future .
While the area awaits new plants from Calpine and other developers , PG&E plans to spend more than $ 200 million upgrading the aging transmission system that delivers electricity to Silicon Valley , San Francisco , and other Bay Area communities .
PG&E and state energy officials also are studying a plan to attach a new 230,000-volt , $ 100 million transmission line to the Bay Bridge or bury it in a Bay Area Rapid Transit underwater subway tunnel to help keep power flowing to San Francisco .
The California Independent System Operator , which manages most of the state 's power grid , forecasts that the San Francisco Bay Area must add about 1,500 MW of electricity by 2005 to meet peak demand , with 300 MW earmarked for Silicon Valley alone .




Andreessen , MS Form Alliance

SAN FRANCISCO -- Marc Andreessen , whose former company Netscape battled Microsoft in the storied browser war , announced on Thursday plans to become an Internet software development partner with his former nemesis .
Microsoft and Andreessen 's new company , Loudcloud Inc. , announced a strategic alliance to provide software and services for companies setting up Internet businesses .
The alliance was part of what Microsoft called its most ambitious project since the Windows operating system , unveiled Thursday .
The so-called " dot-net " strategy will integrate its software with the Internet and make it easier to swap information between computing devices .
Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer heralded the Loudcloud alliance as an " endorsement of Windows 2000 Server . "
By enlisting Andreessen in an alliance , Microsoft has the backing of the co-founder of Netscape Communications , now part of America Online Inc , which created the first commercially successful Internet browser .
Microsoft launched its own browser , Internet Explorer , which toppled Andreessen 's Netscape in a vicious market-share war dubbed the Browser War .
Despite its browser success , Microsoft has lagged in providing software to run larger Internet operations .
Its new Windows 2000 Server is part of the upgraded Windows NT operating system , an ambitious effort by Microsoft to catch up in the handling the infrastructure of the Internet , where it has trailed Sun Microsystems , Cisco Systems , and Oracle Corp.
Windows 2000 aimed to fix the widespread perception that Microsoft software , built for desktops , has been unable to handle the rigors of large-scale Internet sites .
Andreessen spoke to that point , saying , " Microsoft products are key to providing highly scalable and reliable infrastructure services to Loudcloud 's customers . "
In an interview , Andreessen , who is chairman of Loudcloud , said that his company will not be wedded to any single technology but will try to provide services for any technology customers request .
" The whole space is evolving fast and there are lots of different kinds of software out there , " he said in an interview . "
We basically insulate customers from those issues . "
Loudcloud will create a central computing center where e-commerce companies can draw on technology skills that are " hosted " for many users , letting others concentrate on their area of expertise .
" We will provide support whether it 's Sun Solaris or Oracle or Linux technologies , " Andreessen said , describing Loudcloud as " a software power grid in the sky that you can plug into and draw as much capacity as you need . "
Andreessen said that his company needed to work with Microsoft because its technology is influential and widely used , even for Internet backed shops where it is seen as a laggard .
" The conventional wisdom around Silicon Valley is that Microsoft has gotten a lot weaker , " he said . "
I do n't think that 's true ; in most ways they are stronger than they have ever been . "
Under the terms of the agreement , Loudcloud will license Microsoft Windows 2000 Server and other Microsoft technologies for use in Loudcloud 's Smart Cloud services .
Loudcloud will receive Microsoft consulting and training resources for Windows products .




At Sanger , Science Is Religion

HINXTON , England -- Visitors to the Sanger Centre near Cambridge , where scientists helped lead a global effort to plot the human genetic code , could be forgiven for thinking they have arrived at a church .
A large stained-glass window at the entrance depicts humans in a tree of life , some of them glancing toward the heavens .
A parallel image of the distinctive double-helix structure of DNA winds its way alongside .
A pious silence hangs in the air , broken only by the murmurs of men and women coming and going with purposeful strides to carry out what some say is a moral mission .
Yet here the people preach about DNA and if there is religion then that religion is science .
For it is in this two-story building of gleaming steel and glass where rows of robotic machines and their human masters helped scientists unravel the human genome -- an accomplishment formally announced on Monday and one which should revolutionize medicine in the coming decades .
" It is a milestone in the very largest sense in humanity 's understanding of the universe and itself , " said John Sulston , head of the centre .
The Sanger Centre and its surrounding " genome campus , " set near the quaint village of Hinxton , sequenced about a third of the human genetic map .
The rest was done by the Maryland-based Institute of Genomic Research , the Whitehead Institute in Massachusetts , and other institutions from Germany to Japan .
All were part of the publicly funded Human Genome Project , one of the biggest scientific undertakings to date and one separately matched by the private U.S. firm Celera Genomics .
Despite having finished a rough draft of the 3 billion chemical letters that make up the genome , the machines at the Sanger Centre will not be switched off any time soon .
Scientists must still fine tune the map over the next two years and then decipher over the next few decades how the code actually works , shedding light into what makes each of us unique and how most disease begins .
Nearly everything here is tied to the task at hand .
The cafeteria where workers eat calls itself the " DiNA , " and there is a polite warning to patrons that some of the food they are about to eat " contains genetically modified soya and/or maize . "
Away from the stained glass and the cafeteria , hundreds of young lab technicians in white coats mind row after row of sleek machines that analyze DNA 24 hours a day .
They cast a ghostly bluish glow as people go about their work .
" It 's a bit like Star Trek , " said Chris Clee , sequencing facility manager , as he stood next to a row of machines with names like the 3700 DNA Analyzer and the Quadra 96 S.V.
Samples of DNA from sperm or blood are removed and inserted into colonies of bacteria , which pump out copies of DNA like little factories .
Robots probe the growing colonies to find the purest samples of DNA and then break them into pieces so they can be sucked up by hair-like capillaries in machines like the 3700 .
As the DNA makes its way up the tube , it spills over the top , read by a laser that transmits the information to a computer .
In the early 1990s , most of the process was done manually by scientists , one of whom could process 20,000 chemical base pairs , or letters , a year .
Now , teams process 40 million per month .
Since the process is random -- called " shotgunning " -- many of the bases simply repeat existing code .
So increasing numbers need to be sequenced to fill in the missing bits .
If there is a villain here -- someone who invokes disdain from the faithful -- he is Craig Venter , the head of arch-rival Celera Genomics which kept its DNA sequence private and wants to patent information from its database .
The publicly funded project , meanwhile , made its information available on the Internet every day so scientists and drug companies could start putting it to use .
During a tour of the facilities for visiting reporters last week , the lights suddenly went out .
One of the scientists murmured : " Brought to you by Rockville , Maryland , " referring to Celera 's U.S. headquarters .
" There is a common philosophy here that holds people together , " said Rachael Ainscough , a 31-year-old cell biologist and sequencing manager .
" Most people here feel quite strongly that this moves science forward , rather than having lots of individual people trying to do it themselves and not sharing the information , " she added .




Sketch Software Still Suspect

Although police departments are increasingly switching from sketch artists to software for creating composites of crime suspects , many experts believe that machines are no match for the human hand .
In a recent example , the computer proved inferior at creating a sketch that accurately reflected the suspect 's ethnicity .
Police in Madison , Wisconsin wanted to create a composite of a serial rape suspect , and used Interquest 's popular Faces program as well as asking the sketch artist on staff to create an image .
The computer 's rendition ended up looking more Asian or Hispanic , while the drawing created by police officer and sketch artist Philip Yahnke more accurately reflected a white male , the Wisconsin State Journal reported .
One officer commented to Yahnke that , with the program , " the end result looked kind of like an android -- he compared it to Data on Star Trek . "
Victims who provided input also agreed that the artist 's sketch was more accurate .
Yahnke said that although the software allows the user to specify race , individual components like the eyes or nose may have been modified to create more of an Asian appearance .
Madison is one of many cities testing or relying on software from companies such as ImageWare , InterQuest 's Faces , Smith &#038 ; Wesson 's Identi-Kit 2000 , and Sirchie .
Victims select characteristics from a database of thousands of facial features .
The officer then touches up the image to the witnesses ' specifications .
But despite the fact that forensic sketch artists are more highly regarded in the law enforcement community than the computer method , technology seems destined to replace them .
Anne Punter , president of the International Association for Identification , a forensic trade association , believes that the traditional method " is almost a lost art . "
The profession will shrink further as composite software technology is improved , she said .
Punter said the software is beneficial for smaller departments that may not have the money to hire a forensic artist . "
In a larger department , you have a lot more freedom , and the option to have a forensic artist on board , " Punter said .
" That 's a resource that 's not available to us , " said Detective Mike Lederle of the Columbia , Missouri Police Department . "
This is a great substitute . "
But some forensics experts believe there 's no substitute for artists .
" does n't replace an artist at all -- ever , " said Ruth MacDonald , a forensic imaging specialist at the Wisconsin State Crime Lab .
The software
" There are programs where you can move the eyebrows closer together , but you can n't do those hairline kind of changes , " agreed Amy Nelder , the forensic artist for the San Francisco Police Department . "
It 's just not malleable enough . "
Nelder adds out that talking to a human in a relaxing environment is a crucial personal connection that a victim needs when recounting a traumatic experience .




Analysts Send Amazon Down River

NEW YORK -- Lehman Brothers Inc. urged in a new report that investors avoid the convertible bonds of the world 's leading Internet retailer Amazon.com , sending the bond prices tumbling on Friday .
" From a bond perspective , we find the credit extremely weak and deteriorating , " Lehman said in the report , warning that Amazon.com risks running out of cash by the middle of 2001 .
Lehman analysts Ravi Suria and C. Stan Oh wrote that Amazon.com 's " negative cash flow , poor working capital management , and high debt load in a hyper-competitive environment will put the company under extremely high risk " as it enters " what is arguably its most challenging holiday season . "
After Lehman issued its report , Morgan Stanley , Dean Witter & Co. quoted its top-ranked Internet analyst Mary Meeker as saying she saw no upside and possible modest downside to her second- and third-quarter revenue estimates for the retailer of books , music , entertainment and home-improvement products .
In its research alert , Morgan Stanley 's Meeker also saw no catalyst for the stock " until they make or break the December quarter . "
Analysts said the two reports helped trigger a steep slide in the Seattle-based company 's stock .
By the middle of Friday afternoon , on trading volume of more than 43 million shares , Amazon.com stock (AMZN)traded on Nasdaq at 33 7/8 , down 8 1/8 from Thursday , when it reached a 52-week closing low .
It had reached a 52-week closing-high of 106-11/16 on December 10 .
Amazon.com 's 4.75 percent convertible bonds maturing in 2009 were quoted by traders Friday at $ 58 with a yield to maturity of about 13 percent .
On Wednesday , Lehman said , the bonds were quoted at $ 75.035 with an 8.97 percent yield to maturity .
Lehman , in its report dated Thursday , said Amazon.com is evolving fitfully from being a " virtual " business to being a more conventional , " real world " retailer .
Among the factors Lehman cited is a steady slowing of Amazon.com 's inventory turnover , which Lehman said reflects " an inability to effectively manage sales growth . "
Amazon.com , " as one of the e-commerce pioneers , " has a very well established brand , Lehman said .
Nevertheless , it said , the company " has been unable to turn that brand value into what we believe is the most important value of a brand -- turning a cash flow profit per unit of product sold . "
Lehman said it " does not anticipate " Amazon.com will default on its next three interest payments .
It added , though , that in a best-case scenario the company will run out of cash in the next four quarters " unless it manages to pull another financing rabbit out of its rather magical hat . "
For Amazon.com " o continue its operations and grow , " Lehman said , the company must either generate sufficient operating cash flow or keep raising capital until that cash flow turns positive .
John Everhart , a securities analyst with American Express Financial Advisors in Minneapolis , said he found Lehman 's broad assessment " realistic . "
" Amazon 's roadmap to profitability is my concern , " he said .
For the three months ended March 31 , Amazon.com reported a pro forma net loss of $ 122 million , or 35 cents a share , on revenues of $ 574 million .
In 1999 , Amazon lost $ 390 million on revenues of $ 1.64 billion .
In January 1999 , Amazon.com sold $ 1.25 billion of the 4.75 percent convertible bonds maturing in 2009 .
In February 2000 , it sold 690 million euros of 6.875 percent convertible bonds maturing in 2010 .
then worth about $ 681 million
The stock is now worth less than half of the conversion prices .
Standard & Poor 's rates Amazon.com 's convertible bonds CCC-plus , its seventh-highest junk grade .
Moody 's Investors Service rates them Caa3 , roughly two notches lower .
Both grades are considered low junk grades .




Revenge On the One-Armed Bandit

EDMONTON , Alberta -- WMS Gaming of Chicago is suing an Edmonton man for $ 10 million , alleging that he threatened to publicize a software flaw in its slot machines that allowed players to consistently win large amounts of money .
The company filed suit in the Alberta Court of Queen 's Bench in late February after Zues Yaghi , an Edmonton software consultant , began to post information about the software glitch on the Internet .
The flaw came to light after a publication ban on the suit was lifted in court earlier this week .
The flaw may easily have cost the slot machine manufacturer $ 50,000 a day , Yaghi said in an interview .
But lawyers for WMS estimate the losses at between $ 1-2 million , because they say some Edmonton gamblers visited three states in the U.S. between December 1999 and February 2000 , where they used the flaw to win at gaming .
In Alberta alone , some 300 machines were affected .
WMS Gaming is one of the largest manufacturers of slot machines in the world , with annual revenues in 1999 of $ 125.9 million .
The flaw involves players doubling their bets on an electronic poker game in conjunction with several other commands .
Yaghi said he first discovered the flaw in December , doing what he called " field intrusion testing , " a technique he described as probing functions on a machine for weaknesses .
Yaghi said tapping on the " draw " button as the last credit registered would get players into what he believed was a so-called Easter egg .
Easter eggs are deliberately inserted pieces of code meant to produce a hidden option for users .
Normally , Easter eggs are harmless mini-games or puzzles .
Yaghi demonstrated the flaw for Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission officials last December .
Within five minutes he emptied a single slot machine of about $ 600 three times .
His problems began when Yaghi offered his services to WMS Gaming as a consultant for $ 250,000 .
WMS counter-offered with about $ 50,000 .
The counter-offer enraged Yaghi , according to Edmonton lawyer Mark Lesniak , who has been retained by WMS Gaming .
Yaghi began describing the glitch on Internet message boards in late February .
He wrote that he was " amazed to discover a huge open door in the programming of these slot machines .
I can literally empty thousands of dollars in minutes from these machines . "
Yaghi said in the interview he has not used the technique himself on the slots .
Shortly after the postings , WMS obtained a search-and-seizure order , entering Yaghi 's Edmonton home three times and seizing computers and data files .
The company then filed suit .
" At that stage , when we started seeing Internet postings , something had to be done , " said Lesniak . "
It 's just not legal to try and destroy somebody 's share value . "
Shortly after Yaghi demonstrated the glitch , the gaming authority issued a notice recommending casinos bar Yaghi from entering .
Yaghi has filed a countersuit for C$1 million against WMS Gaming and has also filed a $ 2 million suit against Alberta Gaming for defamation .
Alberta Gaming is trying to recover an unspecified portion of the losses from WMS Gaming .
The losses would be revenues that would normally have gone into the Alberta Lottery Fund .
The government 's revenue is 70 percent after prizes .
Lesniak said gaming regulators in Alberta , Michigan , Iowa , and Illinois are investigating to see if they can lay criminal charges against the individuals who took advantage of the flaw .
WMS Gaming claims to have fixed the glitch with a software patch , but Yaghi says he believes other models may have similar problems .
Scott Schweinfurth , WMS Gaming 's CFO , said the company has no comment on any aspect of the issue .




Yahoo Goes Gaga for Google

PALO ALTO -- Yahoo Inc. on Monday dropped Inktomi Corp. as its default search engine and signed on with Google Inc. in a major shake-up that illustrated how quickly cutting-edge technology providers can be outdone by new players .
The cancelled deal was not expected to have much of an immediate impact on Inktomi , which sells its Internet search technology to more than 80 customers and says the Yahoo alliance accounted for less than two percent of its revenue .
But the loss of such a prominent partner left investors nervous that Inktomi could lose more valuable deals in the future .
Inktomi 's stock plunged over 25-5/16 to close at 115-1/16 on Nasdaq .
INKT
" We believe investors are currently most wary of potential pressure on Inktomi to lower prices or risk the loss of other customers , " Bear Stearns analyst Robert Fagin wrote in a research report .
Inktomi sought to play down the significance of Yahoo 's decision , suggesting that Google may have simply offered it a better price .
" We 're a competitive bunch and we do n't like to lose , " said Inktomi chief operating officer Dick Pierce , noting the company had in the past lost , and then won back , a similar deal with Microsoft . "
But I do n't think Yahoo 's decision was based on functionality as much as it was based on price . "
Others , though , saw it as one more in a string of wins for Google , an up-and-coming Silicon Valley company that has been selected for numerous awards for its search technology and has rapidly built up a large base of loyal users with little marketing .
On the same day it announced the deal with Yahoo , Google , based in Mountain View , California , unveiled what it called the " world 's largest search engine . "
It said the new-and-improved service covers more than 1 billion Internet pages , or about two-thirds of all the content on the World Wide Web .
The company says it now provides a service equivalent to scanning a stack of paper more than 70 miles high and doing it in less than half a second .
It also enables Internet users to search in more than 10 different languages .
In an interview , Google co-founder and chief executive Larry Page credited the company 's success to its commitment to search and search alone .
It is a focus that few companies can claim .
Even Inktomi , a prominent search provider , has an altogether separate business managing the flow of Internet traffic .
" Search is an incredibly important area , " said Page , who added that building a quality search engine is an ever-moving target as more and more content is posted online .
At the same time Yahoo exited one deal with Inktomi , it entered another , selecting Inktomi as the search provider for its new Corporate Yahoo service , designed to help companies offer portals that combine general Web content with specific corporate information .
Although Yahoo did not disclose the terms of that deal , or its new deal with Yahoo , Inktomi said the corporate deal has the potential to bring in more revenue than was lost from the plain search deal .
It also takes issue with Google 's claim of being the world 's biggest and best search engine , saying it has not yet demonstrated it can consistently execute and that many users prefer to be directed to a smaller number of quality Web sites .




Better Living By Application

DANA POINT , California -- Last year 's Digital Living Room show greeted visitors with the world 's first Internet-enabled refrigerator .
This year , no refrigerator -- and to a large extent , no Internet .
Instead , products that used the Internet as an invisible backbone for a range of functions -- from buying groceries to linking appliances and computers in the home -- crowded the display floor .
" People at the show were less interested in the Internet per se than an application that brings in paying customers , " said Tim Bajarin , president of technology consulting firm Creative Strategies . "
Almost everything you saw on the floor was application-driven . "
Some of this year 's products actually are for sale -- a step up from last year 's " proof-of-technology " demos such as the Internet refrigerator and the first fully equipped Internet car .
Home networking , for example -- an impractical concept last year -- blasted into commercial reality this season as companies such as Intel , 3Com , and Coactive Networks pointed to significant sales of home networking products and services .
Among the show 's standouts :
Coactive Networks : The Sausalito , California-based company 's system links computers and appliances in a home or business through existing cable , telephone , or power lines .
According to co-founder Adam Marsh , the company recently won a contract to create " residential gateways " for 300,000 Swedish homes .
Its potential applications include monitoring and controlling power consumption remotely , as well as and turning lights , TVs , and other appliances on and off .
Coactive also is beginning to implement an agreement with an affiliate of Detroit Edison to monitor and control electricity usage by business customers .
Vicinium : The San Francisco-based company and Coactive announced a venture at Digital Living Room to bring services such as home security , control lights -- even turning a TV set on and off -- through a broadband connection such as cable or DSL .
Vicinium plans to install its technology in 18 Seattle houses next fall .
NCR : Best-known for staid products like ATMs , NCR is pushing strongly into the Web kiosk business , landing recent orders from chains like Walmart , Albertson 's , and Shop Rite .
Particularly intriguing are kiosks that Web-enable grocery shopping .
A deli kiosk lets customers punch in what they want and come back for it later -- a feature that helps prevent long lines during peak hours .
Another allows customers to browse a store 's wine section , learn the characteristics of different vintages , and find out whether the store has bottles in stock .




NYT Site Exposes CIA Agents

A freedom of information activist plans to publish online a classified CIA document that was pulled from The New York Times ' site after newspaper officials learned it exposed the identities of Iranians involved in the 1953 U.S. and British-backed coup that overthrew Iran 's elected officials .
The Times used the graphic to accompany an article detailing the coup .
In a technical glitch , those who visited the Times website on June 16 were able to read the names of the agents when they downloaded the graphic .
The Times put a layer of black boxes over the names in the 200-page Portable Document Format file , allowing viewers who " froze " the page while it was being downloaded to read the names underneath .
" We notified the Times of this and another method was used to conceal the edited material , " said John Young , who runs the popular freedom of information site . "
then
The Times urged not to reveal the information and we said we would not . "
us
Times officials did not return calls seeking comment Friday night .
Times reporter Jim Risen told Young in an email that the names were obscured " at the urging of historians and Iranian scholars who warned that families of Iranian agents of the CIA may face retribution in Iran . "
Rich Meislin , editor-in-chief of New York Times Digital , told Young in an email on June 20 that the newspaper " would strongly urge you to respect that judgment . "
Meislin added that the Times was pulling the document from its site until the agents ' names could be properly hidden .
But Young learned from email lists that others read the edited names when the document was first released , he said .
Young told Meislin in an email June 21 that " since the information is now public , we are preparing to publish the report unredacted , " with the previously blackened text exposed .
Young said Friday that he 'll post a text version of the complete document this weekend .
He said he is not putting the lives of agents in danger , but is trying to help them .
" It is more dangerous to withhold the document , " Young said Friday . "
It 's important that those who were threatened by the leak know it is out there . "




Brits Tone Down Email Bill

LONDON -- The British government tabled a series of amendments to its bill allowing police and security services to view private emails on Tuesday to head off a brewing revolt in the upper chamber of parliament .
Government sources said ministers wanted to define more clearly what information police could have access to without a warrant .
Home Office minister Charles Clarke has also signaled he would look at the potential cost to business of the Regulation and Investigatory Powers Bill .
interior ministry
The government says the bill merely updates police powers to intercept and monitor communications , bringing them up to speed with technologically sophisticated criminals .
People who refuse to yield encryption codes could face up to two years in jail .
But some groups claim the plans , as they stand , could saddle business with a 640 million pound bill over the next five years .
$ 961 million
Civil liberties groups are also up in arms over what they see as an invasion of privacy .
Changes to the bill were lodged in the House of Lords .
A rebellion in the upper house , something the Lords are getting a taste for , had been threatened .
Opposition Conservatives have had their teeth into the legislation ever since it was hived off a broader e-commerce bill and handed to the Home Office .
" Throughout we have pressed for amendments to ensure that British businesses are not forced into bankruptcy or to leave the country and to protect the rights of individuals on the Web , " Conservative home affairs spokesman Oliver Heald said .
" At last it seems that the government is beginning to listen . "
Nick Higson , head of the Confederation of British Industry 's e-business group , said the amendments were a step in the right direction .
CBI
He welcomed a government concession that , in most cases , companies will be able to hand over printed text rather than encryption keys needed to unscramble coded e-mail .
But he said the CBI would continue to press government to pay for interception equipment -- the so-called black box -- that an Internet service provider would have to install so that the forces of law and order could access e-mail traffic .
" Companies would like to see all legitimate businesses excluded from the need to supply encryption keys , " Higson said .
The bill is being watched closely by a clutch of European countries that have yet to legislate on the Internet and email .
Business chiefs have warned it could drive e-businesses away from Britain in droves -- not only on cost grounds , but also over the issue of commercial confidentiality .




Sizing Up Nanotechnology

BETHESDA , Maryland -- Some scientists believe that nanotechnology will transform computing , biotechnology , and medicine , even proclaiming that the technology will one day solve every problem from hunger to disease .
But researcher Steven Block has one thing to say to these nanotech Polyannas : Wake up .
" One of the problems is that nanotechnology enthusiasts dont know much about biology , " said Block , a biophysicist at Stanford University , during a speech on Sunday to 650 scientists and academics at the Nanoscience and Nanotechnology : Shaping Biomedical Research conference .
Nanotechnology is the science of building devices out of individual atoms or molecules , and was first theorized by Nobel Prize winner Richard Feynman in 1959 .
But Block said that ever since K. Eric Drexler published Engines of Creation : The Coming Era of Nanotechnology , scientists and science fiction fans alike have overstated the immediate impact of the technology .
" Lets get real .
Theres a lot of basic science work that needs to be done , " Block said .
The National Institutes of Health convened the conference to help promote better understanding of a field that is fraught with promise but short on answers .
Block , whose lab pioneered the use of laser-based optical traps or " optical tweezers , " to study the detailed motion of single molecules , offered a sobering assessment of what nanotechnology can and can not do .
" We simply dont know how to design ... complex macromolecules that work , " Block said .
Block said Drexler and his nonprofit Foresight Institute , which is developing guidelines for nanotechnology , are getting ahead of themselves .
" Biologists and nanotechnologists need to figure out how natures machines work " before trying to manipulate them or develop their own , he said .
Nanotechnolgy research will continue to expand during the coming years thanks to a boost from President Clintons 2001 budget , which created the National Nanotechnology Initiative .
The program earmarked $ 495 million for research projects , an 83 percent increase over funding for this year .
Seventy percent of the money will go to university-based research .
Later on Sunday , researchers discussed the promise that nantotechnology offers in the field of medicine and public health .
Chad Mirkin , acting director of the Center for Nanofabrication and Molecular Assembly at Northwestern University , said nanotechnology has already had an impact in the field of diagnostics and is used in tests for tuberculosis and colon cancer .
Mirkin said he believes one area in which nanotechnology will have a major impact is drug delivery .
Nearly half of all potential new drugs dont dissolve easily , but they will dissolve more readily if they are nanometer sized , he said .
Eugene Cooper of Elan Pharmaceutical Technologies said that by utilizing a technology called NanoCrystals , his company can speed the delivery time of an over-the-counter pain killer in the body from three hours to 20 minutes .




PC Expo : It 's All About the Hand

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- Technology tradeshows are always centered around showing off the latest crop of faster things that will make your life immeasurably better .
Never mind the technology has n't been as easy to use as it should be -- but hey , that 's coming in the upgrade .
The 18th annual PC Expo has plenty of snappy tools on display , powered by technology that CEOs at next year 's event will no doubt be telling us is now easier to use .
But the promise of this convention is not just sleeker , snappier , and sexier .
This year , tech companies are also promising us that we 'll never have to be alone , ever again .
We 'll be forever connected to the ultimate power , that supreme cybergrid in the sky , by way of our Palm/Pocket/Handspring PDA .
Announcements of mobile devices , wireless connectivity options , and things that are smarter than they have any right to be are the core of this year 's expo .
Handspring 's Visor will boast a number of new add-on modules : an MP3 player , voice recorder , and several GPS devices among a slew of new content modules .
GoAmerica pre-announced it would be offering wireless Internet access for the Visor .
Dubbed Go .
Web , the service module will be available in the fall .
Palm , meanwhile , announced that it will support a different module/expansion slot than those currently used by Handspring and the soon-to-be-debuted Sony .
Palm 's official add-ons will be built around the Secure Digital slot technology , from Toshiba , Matsushita , and SanDisk .
Sony 's highly anticipated handheld is still officially somewhat under wraps , but details are slowing leaking about the company 's first entry into the PDA market .
All of the unit 's technical specifications still have n't been finalized but the five-ounce blue and metallic-striped device will run the Palm OS , and include a MemoryStick slot that will allow users to add additional storage space .
The unit will be available with a black-and-white or full-color display , with menus that are navigated by a ' Jogdial ' thumbwheel that will allow for one-handed operation .
The as-yet nameless device lacks wireless connectivity options , but will feature what the company refers to as ' interesting video and audio capabilities .
Sony has so far refused to be specific about exactly what these capabilities might be .
Company reps are answering press queries about whether the Palm OS is capable of supporting multimedia by explaining that they are working with Palm to find ways of building support for these options into the operating system , without compromising the streamlined user interface that is one of Palm 's big selling points .
The machine will hit the shelves in Japan mid-July , with a US release in the late fall .
Pricing has not been set .
Meanwhile , Microsoft is vigorously promoting Pocket PCs , perhaps with the idea in mind that this is the one OS the Justice Department has n't gotten its claws on yet .
Step into the Microsoft partners pavilion and you 'll be pelted with announcements of Pocket PC services and success stories .
The company claims the devices will be revolutionizing all aspects of everyone 's life , pointing to their use in such settings as Madison Square Garden and Colorado 's Coors Field where PocketPCs power a system that allows fans to pay stadium vendors by credit card .
Microsoft and Aether Systems also announced a B2B purchasing service for Pocket PCs and wireless service .
Targeted at large-volume enterprise customers who want their own corporate and customer deployment , Aether will manage order fulfillment and customer support of the wireless Enterprise ISP service which will use the Compaq iPaq Pocket PC and the Sierra Wireless AirCard 300 .
The $ 39.99 monthly cost of Aether 's Enterprise ISP service for Pocket PCs will include unlimited usage and access to email and the customer 's choice of Web content .
And to keep your little pocket pal safe from prying eyes , Ethentica offers the Ethenticator MS 3000 , a Type II PC Card with a pop-out fingerprint sensor that replaces passwords with touch verification .
You place your finger on the sensor and it matches it to the scanned print in memory .
If the whirls and loops match , you 're granted access .




A PC Expo Without the PCs

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- The 85,000 visitors to PC Expo this week will see very few actual PCs at the expo .
Handheld devices , wireless gadgets , smart phones , MP3 options , notebooks and networking gear will cram booths but new takes on the old beige box desktop will be hard to find .
Transmeta , which has an uncanny ability to stir up major media buzz with each product announcement , looks set to be the golden child of this year 's expo .
So expect lots of attention paid to new notebooks powered by Transmeta 's Crusoe 5400 processor .
Transmeta worldwide sales director Brian Hurst says the company will soon release three new chips , a 5600 for notebooks and the 3300 and the 3400 for the smart-appliance segment .
Oddly , given Transmeta 's strong ties to the Linux community , the new notebooks featured at the Expo will be running Windows OS .
Dcor note : Transmeta 's booth will be decked out in a castaway theme and should be worth a visit by those who are weary of the Jacob Javits Center 's interior design of gray gridwork and concrete .
Crusoe-powered prototype and pre-production notebooks can also be seen at the IBM , Compaq , and Gateway booths .
No news yet on theme decor at these booths .
Sony will be showing off a prototype of its as-yet-unnamed Palm-powered PDA .
Pricing and technical specifications of the device remain sketchy , but the PDA will feature Sony memory sticks , a thumbwheel control for menu navigation , and what Sony PR refers to as " digital imaging " abilities &ndash; - presumably similar to that offered by the VAIO C1 Picturebook Computer .
The company says the actual product will be available in the United States by early fall .
Sony also announced that it will be working with Sun to create Java-enabled smart phones for release in 2001 .
Palm will be announcing new wireless capabilities to its line of products via add-on devices such as cradles and attachable antennae that will enable wireless connectivity for existing Palms .
New models will include built-in wireless access .
In a departure from its usual business-based market offerings , Dell Computer and Compaq will both be offering MP3 players in the near future .
Dell and S3 will demo an MP3 home stereo device dubbed the Dell Digital Audio Receiver .




Airbus ?
Try Air Limo
Stretch

LONDON -- Airbus Industrie 's A3XX superjumbo , given the go-ahead on Friday , could usher in a new era of comfort for ordinary air travelers , with bars , gyms , and even casinos becoming commonplace in the skies .
British tycoon Richard Branson , whose Virgin Atlantic Airways confirmed its interest in becoming one of the first European customers for the A3XX earlier this month , said on Friday that the 555-passenger superjumbo could offer a level of luxury closer to a cruise ship than a standard passenger jet .
" Virgin already has things like lounge areas and stand-up bars and so on , and what we would want to do is expand on that , so things like separate lavatories for men and women , more storage space , children 's play areas , bigger massage areas , maybe even workout areas , all would be possible , " said Branson .
He told BBC radio that the A3XX -- and Boeing 's planned competing 747X Stretch -- offered economies of scale which were good news for passengers and airlines .
" I think the advantage from the consumer 's point of view is that it should keep air fares low and competitive and I think the amenities on board should be more like a cruise ship than an average airliner , " he said .
Airbus says its A3XX will be the world 's first genuine double-decker airliner .
The main upper deck of the aircraft will have a floor area 43 percent larger than that of the biggest passenger plane currently flying , the company said , while the lower deck gives airlines the option of offering sleeper cabins , bars , business centers , childcare areas , or other amenities .
Airbus tested its interior design prototypes on 1,200 frequent flyers , building cabin mock-ups in eight cities on three continents to test the reaction of different nationalities .
The first version of the superjumbo -- the A3XX-100 -- will carry 555 passengers and have a range of 7,650 nautical miles , allowing a plane to fly non-stop from Los Angeles to Sydney .
In comparison , the most recent version of Boeing 's 747 workhorse , the 747-400 , has a similar range and a passenger capacity of between 416 and 524 .
Airbus also plans a long-range version , the A3XX-100R , which will be able to fly 8,750 nautical miles without refueling , which would make possible a non-stop flight from London to Darwin , in northern Australia .
The proposed A3XX-200 series will have an increased capacity of 656 seats and there are also plans for a smaller A3XX-50 version of the plane , which will carry 480 passengers .
The A3XX , with a wingspan of just under 262 feet and overall length of 240 feet , is expected to make its first flight in 2004 , with the first planes going into service towards the end of 2005 .
Airbus says eight companies have so far expressed an interest in buying the plane .
The five names that have been disclosed so far are Virgin Atlantic , Air France , Emirates , Singapore Airlines , and IMFC , a leasing company .




Sprint-WorldCom : Dead on the Vine

NEW YORK -- The Department of Justice , in its largest merger challenge ever , Tuesday sued to block WorldCom Inc 's planned $ 120 billion purchase of Sprint Corp. , saying the combination would hobble competition in the Internet and long-distance telephone markets .
WorldCom and Sprint , the No. 2 and No. 3 U.S. long-distance telephone companies respectively , have been in intense negotiations with U.S. and European regulators for several weeks , but the companies were unsuccessful in reaching a compromise that would address regulatory concerns and allow the deal to proceed .
The merger partners already offered to divest Sprint 's Internet operations , but the Justice Department also insisted that Sprint divest its local telephone operations as well , Sprint said .
" This merger threatens to undermine the competitive gains achieved since the Department challenged AT&T 's monopoly of the telecommunications industry 25 years ago , " Attorney General Janet Reno said in a statement .
Justice
The Justice Department said its decision , the first attempt to block a deal in the quickly consolidating U.S. telecommunications market , was made independent of European regulators .
Later , the two companies withdrew their merger from review by European regulators .
European Competition Commissioner Mario Monti had said Monday he would recommend rejecting the deal in its present form by a July 12 deadline unless the companies submitted new proposals .
The EU was expected to rule on the deal on Wednesday .
The DOJ Tuesday sued to block the deal in its largest merger challenge ever saying it would squash competition in the Internet and long-distance telephone markets .
The DOJ 's challenge , and the companies ' withdrawal from EU review , makes it increasingly likely that the proposed merger will collapse , analysts said .
WorldCom and Sprint said if they decide to proceed with the merger , they would make the notifications or filings required under European merger laws .
Some analysts said they did not expect WorldCom to fight the Justice Department and would instead abandon the deal . "
At the end of the day this deal is dead , " said a sourcefamiliar with the talks .
" It 's too risky and too time consuming for WorldCom to take this to court .
There are other things it can do , " said one trader who specializes in takeover stocks .
Sprint shares gained 3/8 to 59-15/16 on the New York Stock Exchange .
WorldCom shares were up 2-1/8 to 39-5/8 on Nasdaq .
The proposed merger has sparked controversy and regulatory debate from the moment it was announced .
Federal Communications Commission William Kennard initially said the combination would represent a " surrender " from the robust competition that has driven down long-distance calling prices for consumers .
Sprint Tuesday maintained , " the merger would create a more complete and effective competitor , not only against the mega-BOCs and AT&T , but against foreign telecommunications companies as well .
local Baby Bell telephone companies
" We also are disappointed that we 've been unable to convince the Justice Department to look at the dramatic changes occurring in the telecommunications market and not be swayed by 1998 market share data , " Sprint said .
the latest year for which full data was available
Sprint said it hoped a " sensible conclusion " to the merger could be reached and the companies would determine their next step in the next few days .
Using the 1998 data , the planned merger would put about 80 percent of the U.S consumer long-distance market in the hands of a combined WorldCom-Sprint and industry leader AT&T Corp.
If the deal collapses , analysts expect the companies to become prime takeover targets for large international carriers such as Deutsche Telekom AG , France Telecom and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. , which may want a large foothold in the United States .
Analysts said Deutsche Telecom -- backed by a 100 billion Euro war chest and which has said it sees no U.S. company beyond its reach -- would likely pursue Sprint , its former partner in international joint venture Global One .
Without Sprint , WorldCom would be left without a wireless telephone company at a time when wireless calls increasingly are replacing traditional calls and one-third of the U.S. population has a wireless telephone .
The shares of wireless telephone companies such as Nextel Communications Inc. and Western Wireless Corp. rose on investors ' hopes that WorldCom may acquire them if it fails to win Sprint , traders said .
Many industry analysts , however , doubt WorldCom would buy either of those companies .
WorldCom 's low stock price and and the run-up in wireless stocks would make such deals prohibitively expensive , analysts said .
" WorldCom has made it clear that those deals are too expensive , " said another trader of takeover stocks .
" If they went and bought them now , a lot of people would be upset because it would be a total reversal .
We 've learned we can take Bernie at his word and we 've never been burned before . "
WorldCom Chief Executive
Ebbers




These Boots Were Made for Talking

The celebrated inventor of the windup radio is helping to test boots that convert the energy of walking into electricity for powering gadgets such as cellphones and handhelds .
Trevor Baylis , a onetime garage tinkerer who shot to fame and fortune with the invention of a clockwork-powered radio , is part of a 50-strong group trekking 100 miles across an African desert to raise money for charity .
But as well as supporting the Mines Advisory Group , a British anti-land mine charity , Baylis is participating in the field testing of two different technologies for converting the energy of walking into enough power to run a range of personal electronic devices , from mini stereos to handheld computers .
Baylis is wearing a pair of experimental boots with soles made from a piezoelectric material , which generates high voltages of electricity when compressed .
A companion , John Grantham , an engineer with Texon International , is wearing boots with a tiny dynamo built into the heel .
Depending on the outcome of the desert trials , Baylis plans to commercialize one or both technologies .
Baylis has co-launched a startup , the Electric Shoe Company , to bring power-generating footwear to market , possibly within a year .
In a now famous rags to riches story , Baylis invented a clockwork radio in his home workshop near London in 1993 .
He struggled to find a manufacturer until his invention was eventually featured on a British TV science program .
It was immediately picked up by a pair of South African entrepreneurs , who founded BayGen Power Industries to mass produce the radios .
The Freeplay radio and related products like a windup lantern are now sold worldwide .
Baylis has since become a leading proponent of " personal power " and was awarded the Order of the British Empire at Buckingham Palace in 1997 .
Baylis ' latest project , piezoelectric boots , depends on the property of certain crystals to generate electrical charges under mechanical load .
For years , piezoelectric materials have been used in the electronic ignition switches on gas stoves .
But instead of generating a charge for a spark , Baylis ' boots convert the electricity into a trickle of current capable of charging a cell phone battery .
By Thursday , when he walks into range of the nearest cell tower , Baylis ' boots should have generated enough power to make an international phone call to British entrepreneur Richard Branson , head of the Virgin empire .
Like Baylis , Branson is a supporter of MAG , which organized the trek across the Namibian Desert to highlight the plight of neighboring Angola which is riddled with land mines .
Branson has plans to map minefields from the air using a Virgin blimp .
Not uncoincidentally , he is also a new player in the lucrative UK cellphone market .
Meanwhile , Baylis ' companion Grantham is wearing a pair of boots with a miniature dynamo built into one of the heels .
Each time the heel hits the ground , the dynamo spins , generating a small trickle of current .
Baylis dreamed up the dynamo system and contracted with Jim Gilbert , a lecturer in electrical engineering at the University of Hull , to build it .
Gilbert , an expert in designing components for wearable computers , said the dynamo boot generates slightly more power than the piezoelectric one , but is based on newer technology and may not prove as rugged .
" It 's pretty good , it provides enough power , " Gilbert said . "
The question is how long the mechanism will last . "
Gilbert used a small , off-the-shelf dynamo , similar to ones that power bicycle lights . "
The clever thing about it is -- it is n't driven directly , " Gilbert said . "
Instead of getting a burst of energy when the heel hits the ground , the energy is stored to get more even power and that makes it more efficient . "
Gilbert declined to be specific , citing a patent claim .
Both the piezoelectric and dynamo boots generate between 100-150 milliwatts of power , not enough to run a cellphone but sufficient to trickle-charge the battery .
Future refinements should enable the boots to generate between 1 and 3 watts of power , which would be sufficient to run a host of gadgets , Gilbert said .




Taking Audio to the Streets

NEW YORK -- Franklin Electronics ' hopes its eBookman will do for reading enthusiasts what Sony 's Walkman and Discman did for music lovers .
The handheld audio player and text reader was one of several new products unveiled Tuesday at PC Expo designed to keep music and the spoken word within easy reach .
Franklin , which has been publishing electronic dictionaries and reference titles since 1986 , showed off its new hybrid player which also plays MP3 files and can function as a PDA .
Three eBookman models , available in blue , green , and gray , and ranging from $ 130 to $ 230 , are due out in the fall .
They will be able to display books published in Microsoft Reader format .
The device has a 240x200 pixel display that offers 87 percent more viewing area than similarly sized PDAs , according to Dina Kravets , Franklin 's manager of developer relations .
Like a PDA , the eBookman has a microphone for taking voice notes , and includes handwriting recognition for taking memos .
Users can also import calendar and contact information from Microsoft Outlook through a USB connection .
Kravets said the eBookman will be able to operate continuously for up to 15 hours .
The eBookman can also play MP3 files and spoken word audio , including support for Audible Inc. 's library of content extracted from The New York Times , The Wall Street Journal , and the Los Angeles Times .
The available memory -- either 8 or 16 megabytes , depending on the model -- falls short of most second-generation MP3 players which have 64 MB of memory .
However , Kravets said the high-end eBookman will offer a 128 MB expansion module .
Elsewhere , Audible Inc. was demonstrating new compression formats that improve the sound quality of its streaming and downloadable spoken-word content .
The company is in the process of converting its 22,000 hours of audio content into three new codecs including MP3 format .
Owners of the Diamond Rio 500 and Philips rush portable audio players will n't have to upgrade to be able to listen to the higher fidelity content , according to Jonathan Korzen , Audible 's senior manager of media relations .
Audible 's content can also be streamed in Windows Media Audio and RealAudio .
Korzen said the company has added programs from National Public Radio including Morning Edition , All Things Considered , This American Life , and Talk of the Nation .
He said the company does not currently offer a subscription service , but individual programs are available for $ 2 each .
Sensory Science was showing off the new Rave:MP3 2300 portable player , which will be available in two or three weeks .
The $ 299 unit is the first to use Iomega 's Clik removable storage media , a less expensive alternative to memory-based storage .
Clik drives are $ 10 for 40 MB of storage , compared to $ 100 for the 32 MB on CompactFlash and SmartMedia memory cards , according to Sensory Science .
The 2300 has PDA function including a microphone for voice recording , and the ability to import Microsoft Outlook contacts .
The Rave:MP3 2300 includes two Clik disks , and has an estimated 12 hours of battery life .
Iomega representatives said Sensory Science is the first of seven companies that will integrate Clik drives into MP3 players .
Iomega said it was developing its own unnamed music player that would use Clik media for storage .
Another new product from Iomega , called Fotoshow , can be used to display digital photos or show presentations on TVs or monitors without the use of a PC .
Compact Flash , SmartMedia , and the company 's Zip storage devices can be inserted into the Fotoshow , which includes a remote control for on-screen image editing and to control the presentations .
Fotoshow , expected out in the fall , has yet to be given a price tag .




Hard Sell for Commerce Sites

The already costly business of building an e-commerce website is becoming more expensive .
But , at the same time , the services for building sites are n't getting much better , according to Forrester Research .
In a report released Monday , Forrester reported widespread weaknesses among companies involved in designing and rolling out sales sites for dot coms and established firms -- a business it says is expected to approach $ 20 billion this year .
In the report , the company graded the 40 largest so-called e-commerce integrators -- companies that build sites for other firms -- and found that few are capable of providing all the services required for building a site from the ground up .
Researchers said the relative inexperience of most companies involved in the site-building business accounted for only part of their limitations .
" These companies have not had a great deal of time to work on their methodologies , so it 's understandable that they have not been able to come up with bullet-proof methods , " said Paul Sonderegger , one of the analysts who prepared the report . "
However , it 's inexcusable for them to charge tens of millions of dollars for half-baked development methodologies . "
The report ranked two Massachusetts-based consulting firms , Sapient and Digitas , at the top of its list , followed by some of the most established names , including Andersen Consulting , IBM , and KPMG .
SAPE
DTAS
IBM
Companies were graded on the quality of their design , marketing , and backend technology services , among other things .
Although analysts cited improvements in some areas , such as an increase in agreements among companies to work jointly on large projects , service troubles remain .
Sonderegger cites the example of one music retailer that paid a contractor millions to develop a site with a sophisticated online shopping cart application , but found that the vast majority of its customers ditched their planned purchases at the last moment .
It was n't until much later that the company figured out the problem , which was that the site asked for their credit card number before telling them how much their purchase cost .
To make matters worse , such service inconsistencies are taking place against a backdrop of rapidly rising prices , Sonderegger said .
Companies that with a budget of a few hundred thousand dollars for developing a site , he said , have often had trouble convincing major firms to take on their projects : " We have heard that they do not consider anything under $ 2.5 million . "




Scenes From the Hacker 's ' Hood

Watching hackers in the middle of a recent Internet attack drove one point home to security experts who listened in : These guys like to make it up as they go along .
" The impression that most people fail to get from regular attacks is how trivial they are , " said Elias Levy , chief technology officer of SecurityFocus.com . "
These people tend to choose their targets pretty much at random -- or whoever bothers them that day , or pisses them off . "
Levy 's conclusion came following the release of " Motives and Psychology of the Black-hat Community " -- an installment in an Internet security series of papers dubbed Know Your Enemy .
The latest paper is based on the work of the " Honeynet Project " -- a team of security experts that set up a network of servers intentionally made weak to lure hackers .
" honeypots "
As the hackers used the systems as launch pads for attacks on websites and servers elsewhere on the Internet , project members tuned in , then sat back to observe .
The team is publishing its findings in an effort to aid security administrators trying to bolster their Internet defenses .
SecurityFocus.com provided a forum for the group 's work .
" It 's an interesting glimpse into the minds behind some of these people , " Levy said .
The security team got to spy on so-called " blackhat " vandals -- hackers seeking to break in to systems for malicious purposes -- as they carried out an Internet attack from a location believed to be in Pakistan .
The sequence began with the break-in of a Unix-based honeypot server on the dummy network .
After the break-in took place , the security team captured all the participating hackers ' conversations as they discussed their work on an Internet relay chat channel .
IRC
The group 's activities and conversations were then monitored over a two-week period .
During that time , the project saw the group report success at ISP break-ins , password stealing , and Web page hacking .
While no major new discoveries of hacking techniques were revealed , the report revealed the randomness of the average attacker 's mindset .
Those familiar with the hacker scene agree with that assessment .
Tweety Fish , a member of underground hacker group the Cult of the Dead Cow , says ennui is an ever-present force in the world of Net attacks . "
Probably 90 percent of the attacks that happen are the result of bored people on IRC trolling for unsecured systems , " he said by email .
That boredom can sometimes be directed at their own kind .
On the fourth day of the attacks , the hackers decided they wanted to " take out India with Denial of Service attacks and bind exploits , " as the report says .
DoS
But a little later the same hackers " DoS " each other -- some of the IRC channel members conducted an attack on other members , simply because the other hackers had irritated them .
Levy concludes that the appearance of politics or clear direction in Internet attacks is often belied by the overall inconsistency and randomness of hackers once they make a break-in .
" It was a kind of funny , " Levy said . "
The hackers in the report ) were putting together a little blurb that they were using for the Web page that they hacked .
They talk about Pakistan and political stands and all that other stuff -- but if you read the rest of the text , it 's not politicized at all .
It 's just an excuse for them to do what they do . "
The Internet 's most dramatic attack was a denial of service attack last February that hobbled major sites .
A hacker going by the alias Mafiaboy was fingered as a suspect .
Tweety Fish noted that the attack as documented by SecurityFocus.com shows both the effort required in run-of-the-mill Web page hacks , as well as the difficulty in catching the perpetrators .
" The attackers basically had to execute about four commands to do everything they did , " he said . "
in the report
If you think about it in that context , doing a really swell job on a defaced Web page begins to seem like a lot of work . "
Tracking and catching the " kids " who carry out such attacks is difficult , Tweety Fish said , because hackers like these are plentiful -- and because the type of attack itself is so easy .
" On the other hand , the actions that were taken ... are probably about as much maliciousness as most people will ever see . "
relatively mild
Space Rogue , editor of The Hacker News Network , said the report accurately details what he agrees are common attacks .
But conversely , the report does not inform experts on less common -- and more sophisticated -- attacks .
" People engaging in high-level industrial espionage and other high-level types of Internet mayhem are likely to use less common methods and will take greater steps to cover their tracks than the examples in this paper , " Space Rogue said by email . "
It is important to remember that most high-profile attacks have gone unsolved .
The New York Times , CD Universe , Stages Worm -- even the Yahoo attack have not been solved . "
website
denial-of-service
He said the " mafiaboy " suspect arrested following the series of February attacks is generally thought to be a copycat hacker .
" This report does offer a glimpse into one aspect of Internet crime , but it would be foolish to think that this is a complete picture , " Space Rogue said .
Tweety Fish said the overall weakness of the Net to such attacks lies with administrators who are too busy or ill-informed to prevent them .
These administrators trust vendors to provide secure systems , but too often the software code that ships in such products are rife with weaknesses .
The likely Pakistani origin of the attack documented in the SecurityFocus.com paper should not be taken as an indicator of the common origin for denial-of-service attacks , Levy said .
" Nowadays it 's pretty much a global phenomenon , really , " Levy said . "
In the old days , obviously because the Internet and technology in general tended to be concentrated in the U.S. , the majority of cases and sources were from the U.S. "
As the Net has grown , the phenomenon has grown worldwide to produce hackers from Pakistan , India , China , Taiwan , Malaysia , Indonesia , and Japan .
" They 're really all over the place , " Levy said .
"" As long as you can get computers connected to the Internet , you 'll find hackers . "




Transmeta : Lightweight Contender

Newcomer Transmeta is taking on Intel in the battle for mobile users who want continuous Net access with no strings attached .
The upstart chip company on Tuesday unveiled a series of prototype notebooks using its Crusoe chip that promises to last longer and run cooler than any Intel chip currently available .
Both companies agree that consumers dependant on PDAs and cell phones want featherweight laptops that weigh less than three pounds , connect wirelessly to the Net , and have batteries that stay charged for six or more hours .
At its booth at PC Expo -- right next door to Intel 's -- Transmeta displayed four notebooks along with Internet-access devices that compete with devices running Intel processor chips .
The company displayed sample products from Fujitsu , Hitachi , NEC , and IBM , all scheduled to be released later this year .
Each device runs between six and eight hours on a battery and weighs well under three pounds .
The Crusoe TM 5000 operates at 600 megahertz and , according to Transmeta CEO David Ditzel , the extended battery life is made possible by LongRun power management technology .
LongRun dynamically slows the clock speed down to conserve power if the applications being used do not require the CPU to run at maximum performance .
The Transmeta chips compare favorably with similar speed chips from Intel , which Ditzel said sometimes must be " throttled back " to slower speeds when they overheat .
Despite the fact that Transmeta 's most recognizable employee is Linus Torvalds , author of the Linux operating system , the new notebooks will all ship with Windows 2000 .
Ditzel said future models could run with Linux .
Ditzel showed off a Hitachi notebook that will be available in bright iMac-like colors and will include a DVD player , which can be swapped out for an extra battery .
Fujitsu provided only a motherboard design including the Crusoe chip , because it does n't want to reveal its packaging to competitors .
Transmeta has its closest ties with IBM , which provided a Thinkpad 240 notebook with a motherboard supporting Transmeta rather than the normal Intel processor .
IBM said it is manufacturing all Crusoe notebook chips at its Burlington , Vermont , plant .
Leo Suarez , director of worldwide marketing for mobile computers at IBM said the company deviated from its policy of not disclosing details about future products because they wanted to " validate that a running standard applications can run on a battery for between six and eight hours . "
Thinkpad
Suarez said the company has n't committed to mass producing a Thinkpad 240 with the Transmeta chip yet , but if customers respond well to the limited quantities that are manufactured , IBM would roll out a differentiated model early next year .
IBM will likely introduce the units with Windows 2000 because that is the " sweet spot of the market , " but Linux models may be forthcoming , Suarez said , adding that embracing Transmeta should not be viewed as a break with Intel and that IBM would continue to manufacture lightweight notebooks featuring Intel chips .
Suarez said the target consumer for the new Thinkpads would be a " dot com that does n't know if it 's going to be around in a week , but wants to look cutting edge . "




Say Goodbye to Will Call

No more praying by the mailbox , hoping the concert tickets purchased online get to you -- hassle free -- before the big show .
Consumers in North and South Carolina now have the option of printing out concert and event tickets immediately after purchasing them online .
The innovation is n't coming from Ticketmaster Online , the nation 's biggest ticket seller .
Instead , Etix.com , a startup in North Carolina , has lauched a service that offers consumers printable tickets for professional soccer games , minor league baseball , and concerts .
" This new service has been accepted much better than I 've ever believed , " said Travis Janovich , the company 's CEO . "
The ALLTEL Big Free Show down in South Carolina was the biggest validation of this so far .
We had 10,000 tickets downloaded and printed out of the 25,000 total . "
Etix.com has been offering a beta test for several months , but the company officially launched its full service Tuesday .
The company provides its software for free to venues , allowing businesses to sell tickets online .
Consumers are then able to immediately print their tickets after the purchase using any standard printer .
Each ticket comes with its own 2D barcode .
No printer ?
No problem , Janovich said .
The company can also either fax or mail consumers a copy of their ticket without any additional cost , since a lost ticket can be easily voided in the computer system .
As for general consumer problems , such as a lost ticket or jammed printer , Janovich said the company has developed a novel solution .
" As soon as you purchase the ticket , you get an automated email that provides a hyperlink to a browser page with your ticket , which allows consumers to print out their tickets as often as they like , " he said .
That does n't mean customers can print out copies for their friends .
Ticket-scanning is done at the venue , using a scanner-enabled personal digital assistant that Etix.com provides .
Once a barcode has been registered in the system , it will not be accepted any more .
This service could go a long way towards alleviating some of the problems associated with purchasing tickets online , but Janovich said Etix.com is n't planning on becoming part of Citysearch-Ticketmaster Online .
Instead , he intends to focus on developing relationships with small , professional leagues such as minor league baseball , as well as with local venues .
" We feel that we can maintain this market , " Janovich said . "
The markets we 're going after have n't had any kind of complete ticket solution where they can build their events and venues on the Web . "
But Janovich will be facing competition in this space later on this year .
Ticketmaster.com , the largest ticket provider in the country , unveiled a similar technology in January at the International Ticketing Association Conference in Albuquerque , New Mexico .
The new program is expected to be implemented later this summer .
Ticketmaster sells 75 million tickets a year to 350,000 events worldwide , bringing in about $ 2.8 billion in sales .
But the company has been the subject of consumer backlash due to high fees attached to ticket buying and inconsistent customer service .




Pitch Your Tent and Log On

Getting away from it all may not be as easy as it used to be .
Many campgrounds and outfitters around the U.S. have jumped on the e-bandwagon in pursuit of a postmodern camping experience for campers and hikers .
Computers , modem hookups , and cell phone rentals are now part of the outdoor landscape .
But resistance among outdoors types and commercial outdoor ventures remains strong : A wilderness experience , they say , should remain a wilderness experience .
Kampgrounds of America has already established Internet-accessible kiosks in locations all over the U.S. and Canada .
KOA
Many independently owned campgrounds are offering modem-friendly sites , and even outdoor adventure planners are sending digital phones that can access the Internet along with campers .
KOA , with more than 500 locations , recently introduced Internet access kiosks to 100 of its campgrounds and plans to add computer kiosks in 50 to 75 more of their locations within the next month .
Its first " beta " kiosk was installed at a campground near San Diego , California , two years ago .
" People want to get away from the telephones and everything else , but they also want the ability to stay connected , " said Dave Nusbaum , vice president of marketing at KOA . "
This is something that allows them to be connected to friends , family , and business , and also look up the possibility of reservations at other KOA campgrounds along the road . "
While demand for Internet access anywhere is on the rise , some are questioning if there should be limits to its reach .
" Part of the wilderness experience is really getting away from it all , " said Bill Greer , founder of Great Outdoor Recreation Pages . "
GORP
You do n't want the trappings of civilization to intrude on your experience .
When people bring electronic devices into the wilderness , I start having a skeptical view . "
Added Wilderness Outfitters ' Janelle Huntbatch : " The reason why they come is to escape .
There 's a few that want to bring cell phones for emergencies , but that 's about it . "
Yellowstone National Park , like most national parks , will remain Internet-free for the foreseeable future , spokeswoman Cheryl Matthews said .
" Yellowstone has so much to offer in wildlife and geology , " said Matthews . "
We do not have modems available to visitors .
It just is n't something that we 've explored . "
Other campground owners do n't find it necessary to provide campers with every modern convenience they can find at home .
Joe Weimer , owner of Ahnapee River Trails Campground in Algoma , Wisconsin , has no immediate plans to wire his getaway . "
I go camping to get away from all that , not to take it with me , " he said .
At the same time , GORP 's Greer realizes the intrusions of technology probably can n't be stopped . "
People need information and they need to stay connected with one another , " he said .
" These sorts of conveniences encourage those kinds of people to pursue an outdoor lifestyle , " said Greer .




' Twas Oracle That Spied on MS

WASHINGTON -- Those mysterious private eyes who allegedly bribed janitors for the trash thrown out by Microsoft allies turned out to be financed by the Redmond software giant 's most bitter enemy .
That 's right : It was Oracle Corp.
The detective firm , Investigative Group International , used questionable tactics to obtain potentially damaging documents from trade associations , conservative groups , and other organizations that are funded in part by Microsoft and have opposed the Justice Department 's antitrust lawsuit .
Oracle admitted late Tuesday that it had hired IGI to expose links to the nonprofit groups .
" Left undisclosed , these Microsoft front groups could have improperly influenced the outcome of one of the most important antitrust cases in U.S. history , " the company said .
The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times also reported Oracle 's involvement in Wednesday 's editions .
Oracle CEO Larry Ellison is an outspoken fan of the Justice Department 's lawsuit and has called for a three-way breakup of the Redmond , Washington software firm .
Before and during the antitrust trial , Oracle provided documents to government lawyers that aided them in their investigation .
A private investigator who official records say worked for IGI has been linked to attempts to pay janitors for the trash of the Association for Competitive Technology , as first reported by Wired News .
ACT President Jonathan Zuck said he wanted a public apology from Oracle .
" They are revealed to be what they have been all along -- an enormously successful firm willing to use politics and deceit to win the war against Microsoft at any cost , " Zuck said .
Oracle 's statement did not explicitly acknowledge its involvement with the ACT cash-for-trash episode , instead merely saying " Microsoft also funded the Association of Competitive Technology for the same exact purpose . "
of being a front group
ACT receives money from Microsoft , but has taken positions -- such as opposing government intervention in the AOL-Time Warner merger -- that are not consistently pro-Microsoft .
Oracle did , however , acknowledge it had hired IGI to target a libertarian and a conservative group .
" Oracle Corporation hired Investigation Group International to examine the activities of the Independent Institute and the National Taxpayers Union .
IGI
As a result , Oracle discovered that both the Independent Institute and the National Taxpayers Union were misrepresenting themselves as independent advocacy groups , when in fact their work was funded by Microsoft for the express purpose of influencing public opinion in favor of Microsoft during its antitrust trial , " the statement said .
The free-market Independent Institute in Oakland , California has seen confidential documents obtained by computer companies and leaked to The New York Times for an article that was critical of the Redmond , Washington , software giant .
The newspaper identified the source of the leak only as a Microsoft rival .
" We thought we were getting involved in a high-level debate over economic theory , " said David Theroux , president of the institute . "
It 's pretty pathetic if is true . "
Oracle 's involvement
Oracle refused to answer questions , but the company funds the Progress and Freedom Foundation , which has called for a breakup of Microsoft .
Oracle has already benefited from the Justice Department 's antitrust suit .
Last November , the day of U.S. District Judge Thomas Jackson 's preliminary ruling against Microsoft , Oracle 's stock jumped about four percent .
In April , after Jackson ruled that Microsoft had violated antitrust laws , Ellison 's personal net worth soared to $ 50 billion , making him temporarily the richest man in the world .
In Wednesday morning trading , Oracle shares were at 82-1/2 , far above its 52-week low of 17-5/16 .
Ellison has said he would like to see Microsoft split into three separate firms , each with complete rights to all company products .
He once even went so far as to compare Microsoft 's let-us-innovate defense to Nazi propaganda .
On June 6 , a woman identifying herself as Blanca Lopez offered janitors $ 700 cash for documents in ACT 's trash , according to a report from P&R Cleaning Services Inc. to the building 's owner .
Lopez refused to comment to Wired News .
Lopez offered money on two different evenings , and gained access to the building using a cardkey from Robert M. Walters , who has been a private investigator for IGI .
Walters rented an office in the same executive suite as ACT on behalf of " Upstream Technologies , " which appears to be a front company .
The company was incorporated in March in Delaware , which does not require disclosure of corporate officers until one year later .




U.K. Clones Transgenic Lambs

LONDON -- The company that helped create Dolly the sheep said Wednesday it had cloned two lambs from genetically modified cells in a technique that could prove a major step in animal to human organ transplants .
PPL Therapeutics Plc , the Edinburgh-based company at the forefront of cloning technology , inserted new DNA in a specific place in sheep cells , fused the modified cells with sheep eggs from which the nucleus had been removed and produced two lambs , Cupid and Diana , with the genetic change .
Until now scientists have only be able to produce transgenic mice .
The success of the technique in sheep opens up new possibilities to produce specific genetic changes in mammals .
" This is the first time in any species apart from mice where the transgene has been introduced at a pre-selected site in the animal 's genome , " Ron James , PPL 's managing director , said in a telephone interview .
The achievement is important because it will allow scientists to knock out , or switch off , unwanted genes in animals or to introduce modifications which could have important therapeutic and nutritional applications .
So scientists could potentially knock out a protein in cows ' milk to which 10 percent of infants are allergic , or the prion protein that causes scrapie and mad cow disease , or other genes that cause animal diseases .
" For the first time we have a way of turning off genes in species other than mice , " said James .
The achievement is also a major boost for PPL 's efforts to produce pigs for human organs transplants , or xenotransplantation , because it will allow them to knock out the gene in pigs or other animal cells which causes rejection in humans by telling the body it is a foreign organ .
PPL has already cloned the pigs .
Their next step is to put the two bits of technology together to produce pigs with the knockout gene .
" This groundbreaking technology brings PPL considerably closer to overcoming the problem of hyperacute rejection in xenotransplantation , " James added .
The technique for precise genetic modification could potentially also be used in gene therapy in humans in which cells are taken from a patient , genes are inserted , and then the cells are put back into the patient .
" We will probably license it rather than exploit it ourselves , " said James , referring to the application of the technique .
In a commentary in Nature , Milind Suraokar and Allan Bradley , of Baylor College in Texas , said the technique described in the science journal Nature could produce specific genetic changes in several mammalian species .
" We are clearly at the dawn of a new era in mammalian genetic technology , " they said .




IBM 's Got A Big , Bad Computer

Last Friday a large convoy of trucks left an IBM manufacturing plant in upstate New York and headed across the country to a federal weapons lab in Northern California .
The 28 semi-trucks were loaded with the first batch of components for the world 's largest supercomputer , a monster machine the size of two basketball courts that draws enough electricity to power a small town .
Over the next two months IBM 's ASCI White will be assembled at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory , one of the U.S. 's leading nuclear research labs .
The first convoy delivered only a quarter of the machine .
Several more will be needed to deliver the rest .
When it is up and running , ASCI White will be the most powerful computer on the planet .
It will be used to simulate nuclear test blasts at an unprecedented level of detail and speed .
One of the simulations will run for 30 days .
A Cray supercomputer built in 1995 would take 60,000 years to perform the same calculations .
ASCI White can perform a mind-boggling 12.3 trillion operations a second , or 12.3 teraflops .
It is three times faster than the previous fastest machine , another IBM giant known as ASCI Blue , which runs at 3.8 teraflops .
" The numbers we 're seeing make it by far the world 's largest supercomputer , " said Jim Jardine , the ASCI White program manager at IBM , who benchmarked the machine before it was shipped out . "
It 's a fast machine . "
ASCI White is so powerful , it makes Deep Blue , its famous chess-playing cousin , look like a cheap pocket calculator .
ASCI White is 1,000 times more powerful than Deep Blue , which generated 200 million chess moves every second to famously defeat World Chess Champion Gary Kasparov in May 1997 .
ASCI White is not one computer , but a massively parallel machine made from 512 of IBM 's RS 6000 servers .
Each server has 16 processors -- supercharged versions of the PowerPC chips used in Apple 's Macs -- which also operate in parallel .
Total processors : 8,192 .
Each server is about the size of an air conditioner .
They are stacked on top of each other in refrigerator-sized racks , which , arranged row after row , fill a giant hall the size of two basketball courts .
" The size is unbelievable , " said Debra Goldfarb , an analyst with IDC . "
Just the wiring will blow you away .
It 's so complex , it 's unbelievable . "
Running a parallel version of IBM 's AIX , Big Blue 's flavor of UNIX , the ASCI White supercomputer takes two hours to boot up .
It requires the constant attention of a small army of systems administrators .
Because of the sheer number of parts , it tends to break down , although IBM said the machine will run 100 hours without crashing .
" It 's designed for ultra-high reliability , " Jardine said . "
But it 's not perfect . "
ASCI White cost Lawrence Livermore $ 110 million but would have cost even more if IBM had n't used off-the-shelf parts , according to a lab spokesman .
The machine joins a handful of giant supercomputers in the U.S. Department of Energy 's Accelerated Strategic Computing Initiative , a multi-million-dollar effort to build supercomputers capable of simulating nuclear test blasts .
Under terms of the 1996 Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty , the U.S. is prohibited from test exploding weapons from its aging nuclear stockpile .
Supercomputers allow scientists to predict how volatile materials in the warheads behave as they age and change .




Cables Bad , Wireless Good

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
If PC Expo 2000 had a motto it would probably be : Cables are bad .
Wireless is good .
Almost every booth features tether-free products and paraphernalia .
If nothing else you can find promises of the glories to come once that long-awaited Bluetooth technology finally becomes universal .
HandRes.com offered a real-time reservation engine for wireless smart devices that lets users make hotel , restaurant , golf course , and airline reservations .
The company hopes that portals and other websites catering to the wireless user will snap up their technology and make it available to the well-washed masses .
The company also announced a new service for controlling virtually any appliance from wireless PDAs , Internet-ready phones , and palmtop devices .
Turning off an alarm , turning on the lights , starting the morning pot of coffee , and paying your transportation tolls ... done .
Assuming , that is , the clock , light , coffee maker , and toll booth manufacturers do their bit to make sci-fi a reality and equip their products with the appropriate technology .
But the concept certainly works well over at Booth 3422 on Level 3 of the Jacob Javitts Convention Center , where T-shirt and water vending machines and coffeemakers bend to the will of humans ' handhelds .
Yodlee.com and Palm have teamed up to let Palm users create their own personal portals .
The application will come bundled with future Palm products with the name MyInfo , and will give users access to their bank balances , stock portfolios , bills , and travel reservations .
United Airlines also announced a new package of wireless offerings , United Update , which will be bundled with selected Palm products or downloaded at www.united.com and www.palm.net .
United Update offers real-time flight schedules , upgrade and frequent flyer point information , as well as a Proactive Paging Service that notifies travelers of flight gates and departure times .
Best of all , it will notify travelers of flight delays or cancellations .
United.com plans to expand its wireless capabilities to include the ability for accessing an existing itinerary and booking new flights or changing previously booked flights .
United.com also intends to make the United Update features available on WAP and SMS enabled cell phones .
All in all , Palm announced the names of 37 content providers , including 25 new companies that will provide applications to be bundled in the box with future Palm products .
This wonderfulness will be available to all upgradeable Palm users via the Palm Mobile Internet Kit , available worldwide later this year for about $ 50 .
The kit requires that the Palm handheld connect to a mobile phone via infrared or a modem that is sold separately .
Some folks milling about the Palm booth grumbled that this was n't nearly as neat a solution as that offered by the wireless Palm VII .
Palm itself believes the kit will n't offer the same " seamless experience " as a Palm VII , so the palm.net service will be free to users of the Mobile Internet Kit .
Fees for palm.net typically run $ 10 to $ 45 a month .
Wireless is n't just for smart handheld devices either .
Ensure Technologies is showing a wireless security system , XyLoc , that reads users badges .
A Bluetooth-equipped computer will boot up after recognizing that an approved human is in the near vicinity .
It also shuts down the machine if the user wanders off .
Epson America tapped Bluetooth wireless capabilities to print out pages from a remote IBM Think Pad T20 notebook computer in a nearby booth .
Attendees were also reminded that some of us do n't need smart devices to communicate .
A sound system snafu failed to stop Jeff Bezos , of Amazon.com .
During the Q&#038;A segment of his keynote speech , Bezos , wireless and mobile , jogged about the conference room , collecting questions .
Then he sprinted back up the aisle , clambered back on the stage , and answered the questions that would have otherwise gone unheard .
Unwinded , Bezos repeated this exercise until all Qs were A 'd .




Greenpeace Restores Webcam

ROUEN , France -- Greenpeace said on Wednesday it had repaired a cable cut by French officials that had been transmitting pictures of radioactive discharges from the French coast to an environmental meeting in Copenhagen .
The environmental group said a webcam set up to monitor an underwater pipe at a nuclear reprocessing plant at La Hague was again sending images to the Internet of waste spewing into the English Channel .
" We 've reconnected the webcam after they cut the cable last night , " a Greenpeace spokesman told Reuters .
Divers sent by the state-run nuclear fuels group Cogema to inspect the pipe cut the cable on Tuesday , two days after Greenpeace installed it .
Cogema said in a statement the cable was cut by accident .
Greenpeace also said it had installed a device at the end of the pipe to divide the discharge into six separate streams to show how easy it would be for the environmental group to cut off the flow .
The pictures were relayed to ministers from the 15 countries in the Oslo-Paris Commission , set up to protect the marine environment of the northeast Atlantic Ocean .
OSPAR
The ministers are meeting in Copenhagen this week to discuss a proposal by Denmark to ban sea dumping of radioactive waste from land pipes .
OSPAR has already banned other forms of sea dumping of nuclear waste -- from ships , platforms , and aircraft .
A boat belonging to Greenpeace also remained in French waters off La Hague , which is located near Cherbourg , despite orders from local maritime authorities to leave .
Cogema , which owns the reprocessing plant at La Hague , said the radioactive waste leaving the pipe was monitored before being dumped and met existing standards on health and environmental impact .
Hoping to dispel its secretive image , Cogema installed 10 permanent web cameras at its reprocessing site seven months ago but it has not fixed a camera to the discharge pipe , located 30 meters under the sea in an area of fierce currents .




Suspect Charged in Love Bug Case

MANILA -- The Philippine National Bureau of Investigation on Thursday recommended prosecution of a computer school dropout suspected of transmitting the " Love Bug " virus , which ravaged computers worldwide .
NBI
NBI Director Federico Opinion said the bureau had asked the Department of Justice to charge Onel de Guzman , 24 , with theft and violation of the Access Device Regulation Act , the closest laws investigators could find that could apply in the case .
The Access Device Act covers the illegal use of passwords specifically for credit cards and bank transactions .
The Philippines only ratified an anti-hacking law early this month -- weeks after the " Love Bug " virus hit computers around the world , causing $ 7 billion in damages .
" We believe now that we have a good case against him , " Opinion told reporters . "
It is the position of the NBI that this person be hailed as criminally liable . "
The NBI recommended de Guzman 's prosecution in a formal complaint to the Department of Justice that will decide if there is enough evidence to elevate the charges in court .
Opinion said the NBI had not yet spoken to de Guzman , a dropout from a local computer school , but his lawyer had told the bureau they would make their case at a preliminary investigation to be conducted by justice department prosecutors .
De Guzman 's lawyer previously said his client might have accidentally sent out the virus and had meant no harm .
" He will be summoned by the prosecutor to file his counteraffidavit and present his own evidence , " Opinion said , adding that the NBI did not have any evidence that others were involved in the spread of the virus .
Violation of the Access Device Act carries a penalty of from six to 20 years ' imprisonment while theft is punishable by three to six years .
The NBI said among its evidence is de Guzman 's school thesis dealing with a program similar to the virus , logs from local Internet firms and a diskette with a virus akin to the " Love Bug . "
The NBI 's investigation unearthed four hacked email accounts -- " youngis , " " angelcat , " " koichi , " and " chu " -- all under local service provider Sky Internet , which was used to spread the virus .
Two other email addresses from another Internet service firm were used as a destination for passwords stolen by the virus from victims , NBI investigators said .
The " Love Bug " destroyed computer files , stole passwords , and replicated itself through the address books of affected computers .
Meneses said the NBI would not charge 40 other people identified in a similar virus program allegedly found in de Guzman 's Manila flat .
" We believe that he is alone in doing this , " Meneses said .
Early this month , the NBI dropped charges against its first suspect , Reonel Ramones , who lived in the same flat with de Guzman .




FTC Sues Toysmart Over Database

WASHINGTON -- Government regulators filed suit Monday against a failed online toy retailer to prevent the sale of its customer database , a move they said violates the company 's own privacy policy .
The Federal Trade Commission said in its complaint that Toysmart.com Inc. , a Waltham , Massachusetts-based Internet firm that ceased operations in May , misrepresented itself when it tried to sell confidential , personal information collected from its customers .
Toysmart.com 's privacy policy , posted on the company 's website , states that " Personal information ... such as name , address , billing information and shopping practices , is never shared with a third party . "
But the company , which is 60 percent owned by Walt Disney Co. , placed an ad in The Wall Street Journal last month offering its customer lists and databases for sale .
" Even failing dot-coms must abide by their promise to protect the privacy rights of their customers , " FTC Chairman Robert Pitofsky said in a statement .
The FTC voted unanimously to file the suit on Friday , but lawyers from both sides continued to negotiate on Monday , an FTC spokesman said .
Toysmart officials did not return phone calls seeking comment .
A spokeswoman for Disney declined to comment .
The FTC was urged to investigate Toysmart.com by TRUSTe , a company that provides privacy certification to online businesses to ease consumers ' fears about misuse of personal information .
The privacy firm , which issued a warning about Toysmart.com 's intended sale two weeks ago , plans to file a suit of its own against the company , said David Steer , a TRUSTe spokesman .
Toysmart had been a TRUSTe affiliate , and still displays the TRUSTe logo on its website .
The attempted sale comes as the e-commerce market has tightened , hitting online toy retailers especially hard .
RedRocket.com , a unit of Viacom Inc. , shut down in May , and Consolidated Stores Corp. 's KBKids.com Inc. scrapped plans for a $ 210 million IPO last month .
Toysmart.com , which specialized in educational toys , burned through about $ 45 million in private financing since it was founded in 1997 , and Disney opted to shut the company down rather than lose more money .
Creditors petitioned for bankruptcy on June 9 , and the company placed an ad in The Wall Street Journal offering its inventory , office equipment and " intangibles , i.e. URL name , databases , customer lists , marketing plans , website content " for sale .
TRUSTe 's Steer said that Toysmart.com was the first Internet company he was aware of to try to sell its customer list as part of bankruptcy proceedings , but that the move may become more common as the industry gets more competitive .




Promising Step in Eye Surgery

CHICAGO -- Illinois scientists said Friday they have successfully implanted silicon microchips beneath human retinas for the first time , a procedure that holds promise for millions of people with failing eyesight .
Earlier this week , three patients who lost almost all of their vision from retinitis pigmentosa -- a hereditary condition in which the retina gradually degenerates -- became the first people to have an Artificial Silicon Retina implanted .
Doctors said they will not know for weeks whether the chip has restored vision because the incisions made to implant the device must first heal .
The patients are wearing shields over their eyes to protect from light and debris .
The 2-1/2-hour operations , performed at the University of Illinois at Chicago Medical Center and at Central DuPage Hospital in Winfield , Illinois , were part of a Food and Drug Administration-approved study to determine whether the chip can be tolerated .
Doctors said initial signs suggest the chip -- smaller than the head of a pin and about half the thickness of a piece of paper -- had not been rejected .
" We 'll have to wait three or four weeks to see how it 's functioning , " Dr. Alan Chow , the ophthalmologist who invented the device with his brother , Vincent Chow , an electrical engineer . "
We 're cautiously optimistic . "
The chip contains about 3,500 microscopic solar cells that convert light into electrical impulses .
It works by replacing damaged photoreceptors , the so-called light-sensing cells of the eye .
Those cells normally convert light into electrical signals within the retina .
Loss of photoreceptor cells occurs in people with retinitis pigmentosa and other retinal diseases including macular degeneration , a condition in which the central area of the retina degenerates .
Macular degeneration and retinitis pigmentosa , the two most common causes of untreatable blindness in developed countries , affect at least 30 million people in the world .
The chip will not help people with blindness caused by severe glaucoma or diabetes .
The implants require no batteries or wires .
They are completely self-contained since they are powered by light that enters the eye .
Doctors hope the implants will stimulate the retina so patients develop some vision .
" We still do n't know how much vision can be restored .
It 's still very early , " said Alan Chow , president and chief executive of Wheaton , Illinois , Optobionics , which developed the chip .
He said he " tossed and turned " for six hours the night before the first surgery worrying about what might go wrong .
" The thing that surprised us most was how smoothly it went , " he said .
The microsurgery starts with three tiny incisions no larger than the diameter of a needle in the white part of the eye .
Through the incisions , surgeons introduce a vacuuming device that removes the gel in the middle of the eye and replaces it with saline solution .
Surgeons then make a pinpoint opening in the retina to inject fluid in order to lift up a portion of the retina from the back of the eye , creating a pocket to accommodate the chip .
The retina is resealed over the chip .
Doctors then inject air into the middle of the eye to force the retina back over the device and close the incisions .
The air bubble is reabsorbed and replaced by fluids created within the eye within a day or two .
" If the implant is tolerated well and is able to successfully stimulate the retina , it may open up new opportunities for restoring sight in patients with the end stages of retinitis pigmentosa , " said Dr. Gholam Peyman at the Tulane University Medical Center 's ophthalmology department .




Airlines Check Laptop Wiring

NEW YORK -- American Airlines and United Airlines have taken extra safety measures on wiring that powers passenger laptop computers during flights , and United has temporarily shut down the systems on its Boeing 777 aircraft .
American is almost finished checking its fleet of more than 700 aircraft to make sure there are no loose wires .
In mid-May , an American Airlines Airbus A300-600 flying from Boston to London was diverted to Shannon , Ireland , after an electrical smell started coming from one of the cabins , an American spokesman said .
A wire under a seat had chafed against the metal seat structure , creating a potential electrical threat .
American has not found additional problems during inspections , spokesman John Hotard said .
American , the world 's second-largest airline , is also looking at putting sheaths around the wires as further protection , he said .
The wiring was installed by American on all its Airbus craft .
United , the world 's largest airline , has temporarily shut down laptop-powering setups in its 777s , spokesman Joe Hopkins said .
A United engineer noticed that the wiring , installed by a third party , was not properly separated from other wiring .
The modifications will be delayed because United does not want to take the aircraft , which fly long international flights , out of commission during the busy summer season , Hopkins said .
He declined to identify the company that installed the wiring .
United has checked other aircraft types to make sure there are no similar problems , Hopkins said .
In another incident , a power cord brought onto a plane by a United passenger started to smoke , Hopkins said .
But the cord was not part of the aircraft and was deemed to be substandard .
The safety moves by United and American were first reported in Friday 's Wall Street Journal .
More electronics are likely to be installed on aircraft in coming years as airlines seek to offer inflight entertainment and communications , including Internet access .
But such moves will be subject to rigorous safety procedures , Hopkins said .
Both airlines have kept the Federal Aviation Administration informed of their actions , an FAA spokesman said .
The agency is aware of the incident at American , and is " closely monitoring " efforts to address the safety of both power port systems and the use of laptop batteries in flight .
" The FAA does not have any data to show these power port systems are a widespread problem in U.S. civil aircraft , " spokesman Les Dorr said .
The agency has also tested various laptop batteries and was unable to cause any of them to " fail catastrophically , " FAA lingo for posing a threat to the aircraft .
Any time a domestic aircraft is retrofitted with additional wiring it must be recertified by the FAA .




Giving Amazon the Finger

NEW YORK -- Accessing your favorite online bookstore or bank account may soon require a smile or sticking out your middle finger .
Biometrics companies at PC Expo showed off physical alternatives to passwords and PINs , generally regarded as the weakest link in security systems .
Ethentica this week debuted a touch verification device that eliminates the need to remember the dozens of login names and passwords needed for email accounts , network access , and online shopping .
The Ethenticator MS 3000 is a PC card device that includes software enabling you to use fingerprint scans instead of passwords whenever you 're prompted to provide account information to a website .
The Ethenticator uses a proprietary verification system that senses your finger 's electric field .
The $ 199 device is available now , and a USB version will be available in September .
Face time : A face recognition system currently being used by casinos to catch card counters and by state governments to detect fraud may soon be in place at your local ATM .
Viisage , a 7-year-old company from Littleton , Massachusetts , has been providing 10 states , including New York and Connecticut , with technology to search the photos of people who apply for driver 's licenses or welfare benefits to see if they are trying to establish duplicate accounts .
The technology is also being used in more than 50 casinos including Trump properties to identify known card counters .
Earlier this year Viisage announced a deal with Global Cash Access , a subsidiary of Bank of America , to test the FacePIN system as a replacement for PIN numbers .
In their booth , Viisage demonstrated an ATM machine where users enter a PIN number and their picture is taken to register with the face identification system .
From then on , customers swipe their ATM cards , say cheese , and out pops their cash .
Viisage CEO Thomas Colatosti said the company will soon be announcing partnerships with Net commerce sellers to use FaceNET , a system that uses cameras installed on cell phones , laptops , and PDAs to personal verification .
Storage in a small package : Humbly advertising it as the " world 's smallest storage device , " Trek technology of Singapore showed off its ThumbDrive , a memory card storage device weighing 30 grams , or just over one ounce .
The ThumbDrive looks like a miniature Pez dispenser and plugs into USB ports .
The drives range in capacity from 8 to 256 MB , and since there are no moving parts , are resistant to shock .
Company executives had fun throwing the units 20 feet in the air , letting them bounce on the carpeted concrete , and then plugging them back in.
ThumbDrives are now available for purchase in the United States at usbdrive.com .
The 64 MB version is $ 199 .




A New Income Source for Geeks

The common theme among the Internet 's many distributed computing projects is that they are strictly volunteer efforts with the only payoff being bragging rights among the hardcore geek set over how many work units you 've completed .
Well , this had to happen sooner or later :
Distributed Science Inc. and Popular Power have a new deal : Work for them and they 'll pay you .
Both companies are ramping up to offer distributed computing projects that differ from the first generation -- such as RC5 and SETI@Home -- in that they will pay the volunteers who participate , and it offers a chance to work on something more tangible .
Distributed computing projects involve a massive computational project being doled out in pieces to participants on the Internet , who download a packet , process it , and send back the results to the server .
The programs run in the background of the individual 's computer , using any CPU cycles the computer is n't using .
These efforts are designed to use thousands of small PCs to do the work that would otherwise require a massive , multimillion-dollar supercomputer .
Both the Distributed Science and Popular Power clients are intelligent enough to know when a computing project is over .
At that point they will start a new project , and if necessary , download new code needed for that project .
Distributed Science will let users queue the projects they want to participate in , and the client will make the switch when each projects ends .
With Popular Power , the user sets their computer to do for-profit projects , nonprofit projects , or a split of the two , and it makes the change when projects end .
And unlike SETI@Home and RC5 , both companies will compensate participants for their efforts .
That compensation could be a paycheck , or in the case of Distributed Sciences , paying your ISP bill .
Both companies will base the payment on the amount of work done by the user .
Distributed Science is currently negotiating with a number of large multinational corporations to handle giant one-off projects that do n't want to invest the capital in a massive hardware upgrade .
" There 's a lot of corporations that will have one or two one-off huge computational tasks , " said Steve Porter , CEO of the Hamilton , Canada , company . "
It 's not worth it for them to go through the cost of buying the infrastructure for the job . "




Interpol 's Corporate Health Plan

LONDON -- Interpol is to provide intelligence to a private website to help businesses defend themselves against global cybercrime , the company involved said on Thursday .
Atomic Tangerine , an independent U.S. venture consulting firm , said the organization that groups 178 national police forces had agreed to pass on relevant information about hacking , stolen goods , fraud , and other dangers to corporate health .
It will be made available for free to any bona fide company .
In return , Atomic Tangerine will pass on to Interpol information it gathers from extensive monitoring of the Internet by computers and its team of researchers .
Chief executive Jonathon Fornaci , keen to stress tip-offs would flow in both directions , said his Net Radar service had already tipped off authorities about a Pakistani Internet service provider that Western hackers , without being noticed , had taken over in order to launch Web attacks .
Fornaci , in London , told Reuters the idea began at an Internet Defense Summit , organized by Atomic Tangerine in California 's Silicon Valley last month , where Interpol Secretary General Raymond Kendall pledged cooperation with major corporations .
" The private sector must defend itself because government agencies do not have the technology to do the job , " Kendall said .
Kendall and Fornaci finalized the plan in a meeting at Interpol headquarters in Lyon , France , on Monday and details will be unveiled at the next security summit in London on October 18 .
" Assistance by Interpol can contribute to the private sector 's essential self-defense .
At the same time , information gathered by some private companies may be of substantial assistance to government agencies , " they said in a joint statement .
California-based Atomic Tangerine was originally founded at SRI International , formerly the Stanford Research Institute -- inventor of the computer mouse and recipient of the world 's first email .




Plastic Coming to Screens Soon

LONDON -- Cheap plastic wrapping could soon be something to watch a movie on rather than be discarded .
Cambridge Display Technology , whose futuristic research lab was opened on Monday by Lord Sainsbury , the British science minister , hopes its new plastic screens will consign today 's liquid crystal displays to the rubbish heap .
LCDs
Prospects for Cambridge 's designs won a boost a week ago when the company said that it had managed , along with Japanese partner Seiko Epson , to make the screens just by printing them on an ink-jet printer .
The screens use light-emitting polymers , a type of plastic that can be charged to change color speck by speck , and are bright and sturdy .
LEPs
They need little power and no backlight , can be read at almost any angle -- and are cheap to make .
CDT COO Daniel McCaughan said that with the new printing technique they cost only 60 percent as much as LCDs to produce .
He said that he expects manufacturers licensing the technology to produce significant numbers of screens by 2002 and to capture up to a fifth of the LCD market by 2004 .
CDT , spun off from Cambridge University which still holds a minority stake , has a world patent on LEP devices .
There are other ways to try and outclass long-established LCDs , such as small-molecule technology being promoted by Eastman Kodak , field emission displays , or plasma panels used for big outdoor screens .
They are currently either too costly or impractical for the small mobile-phone size screens CDT is concentrating on , analysts say , but CDT 's success is not assured .
" LCDs will take a lot of challenging .
They are constantly being improved and are like a moving target , " said Bob Raikes of Display Monitor , an industry newsletter .
He said LEPs used a relatively simple technology but there were still bugs to be ironed out , such as protecting the chemicals fully from air and water .
In LCDs , liquid crystals between layers of electrode-coated glass , are charged with a current that polarizes them .
This twists them to make them clear or dark -- the same effect as taking two pairs of Polaroid sunglasses and turning one by 90 degrees in front of the other as you look through .
LEP screens also use a glass plate with electrodes , but on top of this are layers of polymers , blue , red and green , that respond to a charge and emit light .
These polymers , acting like semiconductors , can be sprayed onto the base as an ink-like solution , making production cheap .
CDT says its screens will make color video affordable on the nextgeneration of mobile wireless gadgets .
One day , CDT hopes , LEP screens will be made from soft plastics that can be rolled up , and will also replace the 102-year-old cathode ray tube that televisions and desktop computer monitors use .




BT Phone Home
With AT&T

British Telecommunications and AT&T have launched a mobile service that allows people to use the same phone number in more than 100 countries in Europe , the Americas , and Asia .
The landmark service allows roaming between the GSM networks used in most of the world and the TDMA system favored in the United States , the companies said .
Europeans on business in the United States , for instance , will be able to receive calls to their usual number on a rented TDMA handset .
Any charges will be billed to their regular account .
The WorldConnect service is the first product out of the nine-month-old alliance between BT Wireless and AT&T Wireless Services dubbed Advance .
Jordan Roderick , president of international activities at AT&T Wireless , said the alliance also planned to collaborate on roaming for third-generation services .
- - -
Hyundai 's shares the wealth : Hyundai Merchant Marine said it had sold 5 million shares in Hyundai Electronics to Union Bank of Switzerland AG in a deal analysts said reflected Hyundai 's zeal for unwinding cross-shareholdings .
A Hyundai Group spokesman said the conglomerate secured more than $ 1.5 billion through stake sales since saying last May that it would reshape its operations and shed affiliates .
In the latest deal , UBS paid 120.75 billion won based on Hyundai Electronics ' Monday closing price of 24,150 won , a Hyundai spokesman said .
$ 108 million
The shipping company expects proceeds from selloffs of some 60 billion won which it will use to pay off debts , he said .
The deal gives UBS less than a one percent stake in Hyundai Electronics while Hyundai Merchant said it would remain the chipmaker 's largest shareholder with a 9.8 percent stake or some 48 million shares .
- - -
Invitrogen stock drops : Invitrogen 's $ 1.8 billion agreement to buy Dexter and Life Technologies will make it a molecular biology leader , but the company 's stock fell sharply on Monday stemming from concerns that the deal will slow its dynamic growth rate .
San Diego-based Invitrogen , a maker of kits used in biotechnology research , agreed on Sunday to pay $ 62.50 a share , or $ 1.5 billion for Dexter , a manufacturing company that had been the target of a $45-a-share , or $ 930 million hostile bid by International Specialty Products .
Invitrogen also agreed to pay $ 60 a share , or $ 400 million , for the stock of Life Technologies not owned by Dexter .
The total value of the deals top Invitrogen 's market value as of the stock market close on Monday of about $ 1.4 billion .
- - -
Here comes the e-wallet : MasterCard will soon launch the MasterCard e-wallet , an electronic service designed to simplify online shopping .
The service will be launched on a commercial during Tuesday 's Major League Baseball All-Star Game , making MasterCard the first financial payment brand to promote this technology in a national television campaign .
The e-wallet enables cardholders to enter and store their MasterCard credit card account number , as well as their shipping and billing addresses -- one time .
The wallet can then be used to automatically complete order forms with a single click at more than 1,400 of the most popular online stores .
- - -
NextCom stalls S. African telecom deal : South Africa 's high court granted NextCom an interdict , preventing the recommended bidder from winning .
Hong Kong-backed NextCom is the bidding for the country 's third mobile phone license .
The interdict prevented Communications Minister Ivy Matsepe-Casaburri from approving the choice of Saudi-backed Cell-C for the lucrative license by the South African Telecommunications Regulatory Authority .
Satra
Matsetpe-Casaburri had been set to announce her decision this week , ending months of controversy over the selection process .
Six consortiums tendered for the license , which has an estimated value of $ 200 million .
- - -
US Airways cuts fares : US Airways said it will cut off-peak fares by about 25 percent for round-trip travel in the United States , Canada , and the Caribbean through the summer and fall .
The discounted fares , which must be made 14 days in advance and usually require a Saturday night stay , will run from July 21 to December 15 .
Customers who purchase their tickets online through the company 's website will receive an additional five percent discount .
Reuters contributed to this report .




The Age of E-Sigs Is Here

WASHINGTON -- Critics of an electronic signature law that President Clinton signed on Friday say it comes at a cost to consumers ' protections and wallets .
Portions of the law may weaken consumers ' abilities to control their online and e-commerce experiences , say some consumer advocates .
" There is no doubt that this law has a huge potential for big companies to sell big ticket items online .
What 's not clear yet are the safety concerns , " said David Butler of the Consumers Union , which publishes Consumer Reports . "
We would have liked to have seen more consumer protection in the law . "
Instead of allowing secure cryptographic digital signatures , used by companies such as Verisign and PGP , the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act instead allows companies to count touch-tones or perhaps click on hyperlinks as legally binding contracts .
Secure digital signatures automatically become invalid when a contract or document is altered .
The phrase " digital signature " never appears in the law .
Electronic signature is vaguely defined as " an electronic sound , symbol , or process , attached to or logically associated with a contract . "
" The process of clicking now generates a legal relationship with a vendor , and can bind the consumer for categories of records , " said William Simpson , a cryptographer who is active inside the Internet Engineering Task Force . "
This gives legal weight to website product disclaimers , poor privacy practices , or installer shrink-wrap conditions , simply by making them available . "
Simpson argues that the broad definition of e-signatures leaves open the possibility of the consumer consenting to the electronic contract by merely clicking " continue " on a software installer , and could allow vendors to charge a fee if a customer backs out of the transaction at the last minute .
President Clinton signed the bill on Friday in a ceremony at Philadelphia 's Independence Hall .
" will open up new frontiers of economic opportunity while protecting the rights of American consumers , " Clinton said . "
It
Companies will have the legal certainty they need to invest and expand in electronic commerce .
They will be able not only to purchase products and services , but to contract to do so .
also
And they could potentially save billions of dollars by sending and retaining monthly statements and other records in electronic form . "
The computer industry backed it , and argues that the law covers privacy and protection by adhering to the principles and practices of fair trade . "
The bill basically covers the superset , " said Tom Arnold , chief technology officer at CyberSource , an e-commerce transaction firm . "
You 've got notice , disclosure , authentication , and authorization .
I would say that that clicking engages the consumer into a binding contract with the vendor is a broad and vague interpretation of the law . "
the fact
Many in the computer industry feel the same way .
" This marks the beginning of a new era , " said Ben Isaacson , executive director of the Association for Interactive Media . "
Now , digital signatures will allow more secure trading and will decrease fraud in electronic transactions by use of encryption keys .
As businesses and consumers recognize the power of the Internet for e-commerce , these first regulatory steps will pave the way for a windfall of economic progress . "
After months of negotiations with Democratic legislators and the White House , in early June Republicans reached a compromise deal on the legislation .
The law grants the same legal weight to e-signatures and records as currently held by paper documents and is designed to boost e-commerce and the U.S. economy .




Whose Genes Are They , Anyway ?

So we 've got a genome map , but whose DNA is it anyway ?
Is it Craig Venter 's ?
He 's the CEO of Celera Genomics , the company that helped lead the race to map the human genome .
" There 's rampant speculation in the industry that it 's Venter 's , " said Cyrus Harmon , president and CEO of Neomorphic , a genomics company in Berkeley , California . "
He 's the type of person who would do that . "
In this case , doing " that " probably means providing the sperm from which the DNA was extracted .
Venter is n't talking .
Celera is mapping the genome of as many as six unidentified individuals .
The first person to have his or her genome mapped was called the First Assembly , the completion of which the company announced on Monday .
Human Genome Project researchers , who also announced they had completed their own map on Monday , used samples from several anonymous individuals , although the majority of the DNA was taken from one male .
Blood from females and sperm furnished the DNA used to create the publicly funded Human Genome Project map .
While the female samples lack the Y chromosome , the sperm is a more complete source of DNA molecules because it contains both the X and Y chromosomes .
" Nobody really knows anything about the identity " of the donors , said George Weinstock , co-director of the Baylor College of Medicine Human Genome Sequencing Center , one of the labs that worked on the Human Genome Project . "
We go out of our way to insure maximum genetic privacy . "
The donors ' identities do n't " make a whit of difference whatsoever , " said Leroy Hood , director of the Institute for Systems Biology .
That is because all people 's genes are 99.9 percent the same .
Race does n't make a difference in the human genome .
Neither does the presence of disease , or other attributes like height , weight , eye color , or who can curl their tongue .
The genomes of the famous jockey Willie Shoemaker and basketball great Wilt Chamberlain " are probably about the same , " Weinstock said .
Variations in genes , not the genes themselves , are what cause differences in people .
Companies like Orchid Biocomputer , Millennium Pharmaceuticals , and Nanogen , as well as a government project , are working on discovering one type of these variations called single nucleotide polymorphisms , or SNPs .
pronounced snips
Variations in human genes developed among discrete populations who lived in one geographical area over time , according to John McPherson , co-director of the human genome sequencing center at Washington University in St. Louis .
An example of this would be thalassemia , which includes a number of different forms of anemia .
red blood-cell deficiency
The most severe form of alpha thalassemia affects mainly individuals of Southeast Asian , Chinese , and Filipino ancestry .
" People traveling around , and moving so much , is a recent event in evolutionary history , " he said .




When You Send Spam to Yourself

Carl Toups usually does n't blink at unsolicited junk mail in his Hotmail account , but a piece of spam recently caught his eye .
It looked like he sent an ad for a dream vacation to himself , because his email address appeared on the " sender " line .
" The funny thing about it was that there was no sponsor name anywhere to be found on the message , " said Toups , a construction mechanic for the Navy in Gulfport , Mississippi . "
They did ask for all of your demographics , including credit card information . "
Toups is n't the only Hotmail customer receiving unsolicited self-addressed spam .
Pauline Mang , a marketing consultant in Ontario , said she received two similar spam messages with her Hotmail email address listed as the sender -- one promoting university degrees and another with a tongue-in-cheek header " Tired of Spam ? "
" The other one contained an HTML page with two clickable lines , and I think it was headed up , ' Tired of Spam ?
Click here , ' " she said . "
Of course I do n't click those puppies because I 'm pretty sure it 's a way to scan my login and password . "
Microsoft 's free Hotmail and other free email service providers expressed no surprise at Toups ' and Mang 's findings .
They say concealing the actual sender 's email address with the recipient 's address is an old-school tactic spammers use to trick people into clicking on their message .
" You can pretty much make the ' from ' address be whatever you want it to be , " said John Movena , co-founder and vice president for the anti-spam group Coalition Against Unsolicited Commercial Email . "
CAUCE
Spammers have always put fake addresses , they never use their real addresses .
But for some reason , they try to confuse people by using the recipient 's address instead . "




Baseball 's Andro Controversy

Get ready for the controversy over the testosterone-booster androstenedione -- the Mark McGwire drug -- to get bigger than ever .
Barry McCaffrey , the head of the White House Office of Drug Control Policy , came out strongly last week against andro , which McGwire was taking two seasons ago when he broke Roger Maris ' home-run record .
McGwire later announced that he had stopped using andro , and did not want others to emulate him .
But in the year since the Associated Press first reported he was using andro , sales increased tenfold , according to industry information .
McCaffrey predicted the government would classify andro as a steroid " within a few months , " which would make it illegal to distribute or use as a performance-enhancing substance .
" I 've got to do something about andro , " McCaffrey said . "
I 've got to get valid testing completed , and I bet that 's the way it comes out : that andro is a steroid . "
Reached by mobile phone in Sydney , Australia , International Olympic Committee medical director Patrick Schamasch said it was about time .
The IOC , like numerous other sports bodies , bans andro , which it already classifies as an anabolic steroid .
" We spoke out two years ago and nothing was changed , " Schamasch said . "
We 're happy to see this .
It 's a bit late , but better late than never .
John Hoberman , a University of Texas professor writing a book on steroids , said McCaffrey will have to make a more forceful statement if he wants to have a serious impact .
" As soon as he says he needs testing before he can determine if andro is a sex steroid , he has let the wrong people frame the issue , " said Hoberman , author of Darwin 's Athletes . "
Of course it 's a sex steroid . "
Even if the U.S. government does not classify andro as a steroid , Major League Baseball could still be put in an awkward position .
Doping critics have even suggested that McGwire 's record might need to have an asterisk in the record books .
Sandy Alderson , baseball 's No. 3 official , declined to discuss McCaffrey 's comments in detail .
But he said baseball would update its policy on andro when more information was obtained .
" Baseball has a continuing research effort at Harvard University , " he said . "
When that project is completed , I 'm sure baseball will review the results and take action , if appropriate , in accordance with the report . "
That sounds like baseball is ready to ban andro eventually .
The Harvard researchers mentioned by Alderson -- Dr. Joel Finkelstein and Dr. Benjamin Leder -- have already published the results of one study on andro that found it indeed boosted testosterone levels .
" That oral androstenedione administration increases serum testosterone levels suggests that it could have androgenic or anabolic effects , " Finkelstein , Leder , and their fellow researchers wrote in the Journal of the American Medical Association earlier this year .
" High doses of testosterone increase muscle size and strength in healthy men .
While testosterone levels increased in the subjects receiving the 300-mg dosage , levels returned to normal by the following day .
This is expected given that the half-life of testosterone in circulation is 60 to 80 minutes .
Because many users probably take much higher and more frequent dosages of androstenedione , it is likely that some individuals may experience sustained and larger increases in testosterone levels compared with those observed in the present study . "




NASA : Hacker Threatened Mission

LONDON -- A computer hacker put space shuttle astronauts ' lives at risk by overloading NASA 's communication system in 1997 , the agency told the BBC in a program to be aired Monday .
The hacker interfered with computer systems monitoring the heartbeat , pulse , and medical conditions of the space shuttle crew as it docked with the Russian Mir space station , NASA inspector general Roberta Gross told the BBC program Panorama .
" We had an activity at a NASA center where a hacker was overloading our systems ... to such an extent that it interfered with communications between the NASA center , some medical communications , and the astronauts aboard the shuttle , " Gross said .
Although NASA had backup communication systems , the incident " shows the potential that hackers have for doing some real damage to NASA 's mission and astronaut safety , " she said .
Panorama interviewed Gross for an investigation into how Internet and computer systems have become the vulnerable spots in the defenses of Western nations .




Winning the Next Space Race

WASHINGTON -- There 's another space race heating up between the United States and Russia , but this time it 's the tourism industry that 's up for grabs .
" There 's something wrong here when entrepreneurialism has to go to the ' Evil Empire ' of years past , " said Peter Diamandis , CEO of ZeroGravity Corp. , which sells weightless flights to the general public using Russian aircraft .
Diamandis cited the recent announcement by MirCorp , a Dutch-based company , that it plans to launch commercial space flights to the Russian-owned Mir space station for private citizens .
Diamandis , who previously founded International Microspace , was speaking at an event Monday on Capitol Hill organized by the Space Transportation Association .
Other members of the STA include Boeing , LunaCorp , and Lockheed Martin .
At the event , other executives asked Congress to reduce regulation and boost NASA 's budget for the agency 's space exploration program .
Some STA members are government contractors and stand to benefit from the spending increase .
Diamandis complained , for example , that Federal Aviation Administration rules interfere with ZeroGravity 's ability to send would-be aeronauts into free-fall dives that provide some 30 seconds of temporary weightlessness .
Currently launching from the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center in Star City , Russia , the zero-gravity flights cost about $ 5,000 .
An FAA spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
" It is said that in a mature society , there is a law against everything .
Well , we are living in a mature society .
If a Russian team beats us because of poor legislation , it 's going to look pretty bad on the front page of The New York Times , " Diamandis said .
Other speakers at the conference said the U.S. government needed to spend more in the area of space tourism -- and that such a move would bring the reality of such ventures out of the far-off future and into the present .
" The federal and state governments have traditionally provided money for all forms of mass transit , airlines , the major railways and the like .
However , after 40 plus years of space exploration , we 've seen no public funds allocated toward space tourism , " said Bob Haltermann , director of the STA 's tourism division , at Monday 's conference .




Top Business Schools E-Align

Beginning this fall , three high-ranking , competing business schools will collaborate to offer classes to each other 's students via full-motion video-conferencing and other Internet technologies .
School officials expect it to become a popular feature , despite logistical difficulties and a prevailing belief among detractors that the quality of the education might suffer .
The Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley , the University of Michigan Business School , and the Darden School at the University of Virginia will offer each other 's students classes specializing in e-business .
" So much of business education is the network-building between the students , " said Haas Dean Laura Tyson . "
What is nice here is that people in each location will now be able to have a new selection of classes to choose from , and a new selection of people to work with . "
" In essence , this program is not only about sharing knowledge but about sharing communities , " she said .
Each school will offer its own courses in e-business and technology .
Class preparation materials and research will be distributed over the Internet , and students will communicate during class with each other and with faculty via video-conferencing and Internet chat rooms .
For example , a student at Berkeley 's Haas School could elect to take Darden 's course on e-business .
The Haas School will offer a course on financial issues in the Internet sector , including valuation of high-technology companies .
Michigan will teach a course on understanding and strategically applying Internet technologies .
The University of Michigan 's alliance with the other two schools grew out of its video-conferencing and Internet chat room classes used by its MBA students studying abroad in Brazil and Korea .
The university 's MBA abroad program began in Hong Kong in 1985 , when professors used video-conferencing and other Internet technologies .
Although that program is no longer taking place , programs in Korea and Brazil are .
Michigan Dean of Business B. Joseph White went to Brazil to teach students who were using the technology .
" I came away from the teaching experience with the feeling that the students were achieving a very strong level of education , " White said . "
I feel very confident in the quality of education and fairness of grading that can be achieved through video-conferencing and the Internet . "
" If I did n't feel it would work , I would n't propose , " he added .
the alliance between Michigan , Haas , and Darden
There are skeptics out there .
Mihir Mankab , a recent graduate of the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University , said it was difficult to enroll in a popular e-business class offered at his school .
Due to its popularity , the class used video-conferencing and Internet chat rooms so that more students could participate .
Mankab said he participated in the video-conferencing course for a few weeks , but dropped the class because of scheduling conflicts .
Ultimately , he heard mixed reviews from the other students who used the technology .




NASA Probes Crashing Explorer

When Columbus and his fellow European explorers landed in the Americas , they unwittingly unleashed an invisible menace that annihilated many of the New World 's people -- small pox .
The local population had no natural resistance to the alien virus , and it quickly killed off millions .
Five hundred years later , scientists are taking steps to ensure that another explorer with an Italian name -- the Galileo Space Probe , currently in orbit around Jupiter -- does n't unleash a similar scourge upon the possible inhabitants of Europa , an icy Jupiter moon whose oceans may support living organisms .
" Over the past 15 years , ethical and philosophical papers have been published on the rights of alien beings , no matter how simple those beings , " wrote scientists at the National Research Council , in a recent research report examining the threat to life on Europa .
The report emphasizes " the need to encourage public discussion and dissemination of information concerning the steps taken to prevent planetary cross-contamination . "
In keeping with its report , last week the NRC sent a letter to NASA recommending that the Galileo craft be intentionally crashed into Jupiter before the probe runs out of fuel or fails .
The intentional crash would prevent a drifting Galileo from blundering into Europa , and possibly contaminate the moon with earthly organisms .
NASA had originally planned to let Galileo expire in orbit , but began considering the Jupiter-crash plan when it became clear that Galileo might collide with Europa if left adrift .
NASA solicited the NRC 's opinion on the matter .
Because Galileo was never intended to be a landing probe , it was not sterilized to prevent the accidental transport of " extremophiles , " tiny , prevalent organisms from Earth capable of surviving extreme heat , cold , pressure , or radiation .
Certain types of extremophiles that may be resident on Galileo could conceivably survive or even thrive on Europa .
But according to the NRC report , Jupiter can not support life , and would therefore be a more appropriate burial ground for Galileo .




A Quiet , Exhaust-Free Ferry

SYDNEY , Australia -- It looks like a houseboat with a metallic Mohawk haircut .
But it 's probably the world 's most non-polluting vessel .
A solar-and-wind-powered ferry now plying the waters of Sydney Harbor collects energy mostly through a series of tilting panels on its roof .
Pivoting like a mobile sculpture to capture the sun and wind , the panels power the ferry along .
" Sun and wind are two of the most abundant forces on Earth , " says Robert Dane , a New South Wales country doctor who dreamed up the vessel . "
Why not use them both ? "
Dane 's solar sailor is going into commercial service shortly for harbor sightseeing tours .
The 60-foot vessel carries 100 passengers and has a top speed of 12 knots .
Best of all , it 's quiet and does n't pollute -- eliminating the two most common complaints about traditional ferries , Dane says .
Dane hopes to replace the natural gas generator with a device manufacturing hydrogen from seawater that could feed a hydrogen engine , thus making the vessel completely dependent upon only renewable energy .
With patents now filed in the United States , Australia , New Zealand , and Turkey , Dane has given up delivering babies and taking temperatures , and is now courting municipalities , eco-tourism operators , and ferry companies with his invention .
With ever stricter environmental regulations going into effect -- especially in European waterways -- a reliable , renewable energy ferry should find a ready market for commuter transport .
That 's what Dane is banking on , anyway .
Dane believes his vessel could find a niche among recreational boaters , who now must constantly worry about where they can buy more marine fuel .
The boat also would be suitable for use in sensitive areas such as coral reefs and , because they 're so quiet , might even have military applications .
" It could serve as a patrol or reconnaissance vessel with unlimited range and complete stealth , " Dane said .
What 's more , he says , his boats are essentially mobile power plants and could be used to generate instantaneous power for places with devastated infrastructures, like East Timor .
Dane built the Sydney Harbor boat to show off his concept , and notes the technology is readily scalable .
That 's because unlike solar-powered cars -- where the weight of additional batteries rapidly offsets energy gains from additional solar panels -- the opposite principle is at work on the water .
" The bigger the boat , the better this works , " Dane said . "
In the case of boats , batteries provide welcome ballast .
Eventually , there 's no reason floating cities could n't be created adrift on the seas , garnering all their energy from the wind and sun . "
But that lies well over the horizon .
Right now , Dane is busy signing up sightseeing tours around Sydney Harbor .
He 'll then start focusing on the global market for environmentally sensitive boats .
One potential early market is San Francisco Bay , which Dane says is similar to Sydney Harbor : It 's sunny , windy , environmentally sensitive , and has lots of commuters .
Russell Long , executive director of the Bluewater Network , a clean waterways environmental group , agrees .
He believes the solar sailor would work well on busier S.F. Bay routes such as Sausalito , Tiburon , and Alcatraz .
In Sydney Harbor , Dane 's vessel makes two or three cruises daily on weekends .
And , with the Olympic Games approaching , it 's also available for charter , said Kim Styles , spokeswoman for Captain Cook Cruises , which is handling bookings .
Captain Cook itself operates eight old-fashioned , diesel-powered sightseeing boats on Sydney Harbor , which travel at average speeds of 9 knots .




From Old Big Blue to ASCI White

Dave Nichols , who worked the night shift at a check processing center at a Boston bank in the mid-1960s , laughs when an image of ASCI White -- IBM 's new supercomputer at Lawrence Livermore Lab -- is described to him .
Resembling row upon row of black refrigerators at a local Sears , the supercomputer -- which may perform an astonishing 12 trillion operations a second -- is eerily quiet .
The only sign of life is the gentle hum of hundreds of cooling fans .
Back when Nichols was paying his way through college by working with an IBM 1401 , the din of a typical computer room was much different .
The 1401 was Big Blue 's first all-transistor machine , one of the first to replace the vacuum-tube models of the previous era .
" The printers and check sorters would roar like machine guns all through the night , " he said . "
It was deafening .
If you stood next to them you could n't hear a thing in the morning .
" It was a very physical experience you do n't get today . "
Nichols had to load the machine 's operating system on giant trays of stacked punch cards , which he often managed to drop on the floor .
If the computer did n't work , he 'd kick it .
And he was always smoking .
" We used to smoke like bandits and we would be constantly dropping ash down into those computers , " he said . "
There was cigarette crud all over them . "
Nichols went on to sell mainframes for IBM in the early 1970s .
Stationed in New Mexico , he began wooing the Los Alamos National Laboratory as one his customers .
At the time , Los Alamos ran Cray supercomputers , but it eventually bought one of Nichols ' mainframes as the front end for a custom-built data storage center .
" It was a Rube Goldberg contraption , " he said . "
It was an incredible giant -- 50 feet long or more and 10 feet high .
It stored all the data for the lab on small film cartridges or something like that .
Whenever someone wanted something it would fetch them with an arm and open them up .
It was like a huge robot . "
Walter Donovan also recalls the early days of big iron .
Donovan was a college grad in the early 1960s when he went to work for the System Development Corporation , a private company funded by the U.S. Air Force to develop software for early air defense systems .
Based in Santa Monica , California , Donovan helped program an IBM Q7 vacuum-tube computer , constructed out of 30,000 glowing vacuum tubes .
Deployed in pairs to ensure a backup if one went down , the Q7s consumed three floors of the building where Donovan worked , one floor entirely devoted to air conditioners .
Every day , the 60,000 vacuum tubes and cooling equipment sucked down 10 percent of Santa Monica 's power , Donovan said , and were left on day and night for fear of causing destructive surges in the city 's power .
" Shutting it down was a big deal and would probably have caused a huge spike , " he said . "
We never did it . "
Despite its phenomenal size , the Q7 had a single CPU running at about 12 KHz -- that 's kilohertz , not megahertz -- and 64K of RAM .
Donovan was one of " hundreds " of programmers who coded the machines in assembly language , which were encoded on a long paper ticker tape .
But in many ways , the machine was surprisingly sophisticated .




Yahoo Has a Big Quarter

PALO ALTO , California -- Yahoo , the leading consumer Internet portal , reported unexpectedly sharp increases Tuesday in its second-quarter earnings and revenues and said it did not view the widespread troubles of other dot-com companies as a serious threat to its business .
The numbers and comments from company executives seemed to instantly revive investors ' faith in the company .
Yahoo 's shares , which had been drifting lower in recent days , shot up $ 15 a share in after-hours activity .
Prior to the release of earnings , Yahoo stock had lost 4-1/2 to close at 105-1/2 in daily trading .
YHOO
Yahoo said its pro forma net income , excluding certain unusual items , totaled $ 74 million , or 12 cents per diluted share in the second quarter , nearly triple the $ 27.1 million , or 5 cents per diluted share in the year-ago period .
The earnings exceeded the consensus analyst forecast for a profit of 10 cents per share .
Sales also surpassed most forecasts , totaling $ 270.1 million from $ 128.6 million the year before .
Page views , a key measure of traffic to Yahoo 's network of online properties , rose about 9 percent to an average 680 million per day in June , from 625 million in March .
Including all the unusual items , Yahoo reported net income of $ 65.5 million , or 11 cents per share in the quarter , compared with a loss of $ 263,000 , or break even per share last year .
Although the company emphasized its success in several areas , from building the international part of the business to adding more wireless services , the big issue on the minds of financial analysts was the stability of the company 's domestic advertising base .
A wave of dot-com failures in recent months has caused some big Internet companies like NBC Internet Inc. to lose valuable advertisers and concerns have been mounting that even Yahoo was not immune to the slowdown .




Student Entrepreneurs ' Go Global '

Silicon Valley is known worldwide for its startup mentality .
And a new international student competition is attempting to bring that mindset to the rest of the world .
Student teams from Australia to Singapore met last week for Stanford University 's Global Entrepreneurs Challenge to see how their business plans stacked up against those of their global competitors .
" The impetus was to get the brightest students from different countries to come here , immerse themselves in Silicon Valley culture , and hopefully take back what they 've learned to further their own entrepreneurship , " said Robert Koturbash , vice president of marketing for Stanford 's Business Association of Stanford Engineering Students .
Teams from 20 universities and 14 countries gathered for three days to compete before a panel of high-level Silicon Valley executives .
The lure ?
Prizes worth $ 250,000 and a chance to snare thousands of dollars in seed money .
But the Challenge is more than just an awards competition .
Top entrepreneurs , professors , venture capitalists , and management consultants shared their perspectives in clinics and workshops on topics ranging from how to negotiate a term sheet to marketing a venture to protecting intellectual property .
Delegates from winning student teams received guidance on turning their business plans into a real ventures .
On excursions to Silicon Valley startups , venture capital firms , and incubators , participants learned valuable lessons about launching startups and gained hands-on experience that will be applicable in their home countries .
" One of the key ways to develop an entrepreneurial culture is through these competitions locally , " said Koturbash , one of the founding organizers who foresees the Challenge becoming an annual event . "
By instilling entrepreneurship in undergraduate and graduate students , you plant a seed so that people realize these opportunities are available to them .
" By sponsoring these local competitions and helping to create companies , that creates a synergy so that far-out technical research gets commercialized by surrounding areas , " he said .
Student teams from the University of Sydney in Australia , the University of Buenos Aires in Argentina , MIT , and Stanford earned the top awards .




Old News , Different Stream

While big entertainment-content developers have faced major financial problems recently , Internet news organizations are hoping the Net holds a more promising future for them .
In just over a month , two high-profile sites -- DEN and Pseudo.com -- were faced with the financial realities of the current marketplace .
DEN was forced to shut its operations down after burning through its cash , while Pseudo.com has restructured its original business model into an interactive , streaming chat site .
Now , several new streaming media websites are hoping to avoid the same fate by melding offline news sensibilities with new distribution channels over the Internet .
" Entertainment websites are asking you to take time out from your day to watch a crummy presentation done on a low budget , " said Jonathan Klein , president and CEO of feedroom.com . "
But news is relevant and it comes naturally suited for the computer because the average package is about 90 seconds . "
Klein and his executives have their roots in the network television news business .
Klein and his chief technology officer Jay Fine both worked for CBS , while Feedroom 's vice president of business development , Matthew Shapiro , worked at NBC .
Launching in July , the company will repackage television news from around the country into one , giant newsfeed on the Web .
" There 's been a beta test going on for 50 years called the television that has told us that people like to get their information in pictures , " said Klein .
" When I was a TV executive at CBS and we launched a cable channel and success was defined as having an audience of 10 million .
There are 31 million broadband users right now .
Mainstream media executives who dismiss broadband do so out of ignorance .
It 's an immense audience that is growing wild in the next few years . "
To keep their broadcasts chock full of new content without spending millions of dollars developing original reporting , the company has struck up partnerships with 29 television stations , two major networks , USA Today , and the Reuters news service .
An anchor will come on at the top of the hour to update the latest news stories , but viewers are largely responsible for seeking out the video news they want by drilling down through the links on the site .
One advantage Klein sees of being an aggregator of news from around the world is the ability to package stories together so viewers can watch trends unfolding across the land .
Where local news coverage is limited by the scope of a city , Feedroom will package similar stories from around the nation into a series of stories .
" We 're going to be sitting on the biggest vat of video news , " Klein said . "
We do no original reporting , but ... being able to see news from all over the place will allow us to repackage stories into new and interesting ways that local news can not possible do .
This is news on an atomic level . "




Things to Watch for in 2020

SAN FRANCISCO -- At the fourth annual Next 20 Years series , a quartet of future-thinkers gathered at San Francisco 's Palace of Fine Arts to hand out visions of our techno-world come 2020 .
A few outtakes follow :
Way-new post-urbanism : Fifty years ago , tract homes , cheap cars , and gasoline shaped modern suburbia .
Now the Internet and advances in fuel cells and cheap bandwidth will sever the power line -- that last cable tethering workers to the city and the ' burbs .
Institute for the Future Director Paul Saffo predicted that consumers will be able to buy a washing-machine-sized device filled with petrochemicals that will produce electricity with only fresh water as the by-product .
The result is not as environmentally friendly as you might think .
" It 's going to mean a huge push into the ' exurbs , ' " Saffo said . "
It means any fool with a double-wide trailer and a satellite dish can tow it onto a piece of unoccupied land in the middle of the Nevada desert and have enough power to compute . "
That 's not necessarily going to translate into a better quality of life on Earth . "
My fear is that we will see the vast wasteland of suburbia replaced by the vaster wasteland of ' cyburbia , ' " Saffo concluded .
Tele-presence : Devices with sufficient sensory sophistication and massive information transmission power will give everyone the emotional experience of " being " anywhere .
Stanley Williams , director of the quantum structures research initiative at Hewlett-Packard Labs , expects football fans will be able to experience a game " from the standpoint of any of the players on the field , or the referees .
You could watch a drama or a comedy as some sort of disembodied spirit somewhere within the scene , or even from the perspective of one of the characters in the scene . "
Scientists will have their " Fantastic Voyages , " Williams said -- their experiences of traveling through the blood vessels of living organisms by transmitting information gathered by a remotely controlled sensor traveling through any body .
Browsable desktop economies : Napster heralds the true social power of the Net , as new economy guru and Benchmark Capital General Partner Bill Gurley sees it .
With every computer connected Napster-style -- a very different architecture from the server-client Web common today -- people will be able to log onto the Net and " play " the economy -- just as they play multi-user games and eBay auctions today .
" The economy is a game as well , " Gurley said . "
So all of a sudden -- with everyone connected to the Web and an easy way to transfer money , and the ability to compete for your time or expertise -- I think you 'll see a world evolve literally within the next 20 years very similar to what 's described in Neal Stephenson 's Snow Crash .
...
The notion that you might wake up one day , take a shower , walk into your office , put on a headphone , and sit down to a keyboard , and literally jack into an entire different economy is very possible . "
Big-lipped email attachments : And now for something a little more immediate : Within 10 years , you 'll be able to take the collected works of the Rolling Stones and attach it to an email , Gurley predicted .
With such huge attachments -- about as noticeable as Word attachments today -- the music industry is going to have to face up to the problems presented by technology , and soon .




The Year 2020 , Explained

SAN FRANCISCO -- Gadgetly speaking , the year 2020 is sure to be darned neat-o , but it will also be more than a little taxing on the human being .
" We will continue to live as we do today in an age of creative destruction -- technologically induced creative destruction , " said Paul Saffo , director of the Institute for the Future , where he studies long-term technology trends and their influences on society .
" The gales of creative destruction are blowing through every industry on the planet today , touched by the Internet and digital technology .
Biology is the next thing to come , " he said .
Saffo was among a quartet of future-thinkers gathered at San Francisco 's Palace of Fine Arts last week to offer their snapshots of the world come 2020 .
Such is the forward-looking purpose of the fourth annual Next Twenty Years discussion series .
The panel warned the future-wary that if the pace of change seems a nuisance now , you ai n't seen nothing yet .
To keep up , humans are going to have to figure out how to keep their education nearly constant , panelists warned -- and develop the wisdom to deal with a state of almost impossibly accelerated scientific advance .
The hardest trick could be to stay sane amid a snowstorm of paradigm shifts .
" People to learn throughout their lives is going to be absolutely crucial if we 're going to keep abreast of this -- and keep our mental health , " said Stanley Williams , director of the quantum structures research initiative at Hewlett-Packard Labs .
being able
Watch for struggles with human identity as machines on the other end of the phone acquire the thinking and responsive capacity of the human brain .
Be prepared for a time when your doctor will be able to map your personal genome as fast as he draws blood .
And as far as our darling computer is concerned -- well , you and your spanking new Pentium IV are n't so hot .
" I can safely say that the age of computing has n't even begun yet , " Williams said . "
We 're still playing around in essentially Stone Age times technologically . "
Williams sees pathways in quantum research that will overcome the current physical limits of silicon chips .
These paths will lead technology down a road where only the fundamental limits of electrons themselves will put a cap on information-processing capacity .
In 2020 , " our electronics will be 10,000 times as capable as they are today , " Williams said .
Overarching all this change will be the parallel progress of not one , but multiple industrial eras .
" At the beginning of this millennium , we 're actually watching the birth of three great new technologies , all simultaneously , " Williams said . "
Those technologies are biotechnology , information technology , and nanotechnology . "
Each technology alone would be classifiable as an industrial revolution .
But having all three progressing simultaneously -- sometimes competing , often complementing -- " it 's going to be completely beyond anything we 've ever experienced before , " Williams ventured .
As for the already-amazing here-and-now , it turns out we 're only now at the very end of the information science era -- not at the beginning of a new one .
Sage and cautionary futurist Saffo knows that to be true , because whenever he imagines the future , he simultaneously looks an equal distance back .
His vantage point shows that over the last 150 years , major new scientific disciplines take center stage every three to five decades , with each setting the stage for the innovation to follow .




Steroids Still Spoil Sports

Doping continues to be a hot topic around the world , beyond the controversy over androstenedione and the problem it presents for Major League Baseball .
The former boss of the East German sports machine , Manfred Ewald , and his medical director , Manfred Happner , are on trial for causing bodily harm to more than 100 former East German athletes who were given steroids and told they were " vitamins . "
It was in Ewald 's laboratories that andro , first isolated by European scientists in the 1930s , was developed in the late '80s as a so-called bridging drug to tide over East German athletes when they had to ease off their usual regimen of steroids prior to being tested at competitions .
" It 's not important that you can say Ewald must go to jail for a month or whatever , " former discus-thrower Brigitte Michel said . "
What 's important is that there is a process that will make this public .
For me that 's very personal .
" It is important to teach people how to think about steroids and their dangers .
In all the disciplines of sports , you need power and energy .
But steroids are a time bomb .
They are always dangerous .
I would tell athletes around the world , ' Keep yourself off steroids .
' I hope they pay attention . "
The trial has taken a dramatic twist .
The court has concluded that the two former East German functionaries are culpable , but the question of sentencing remains open .
Early last week , senior public prosecutor Klaus-Heinrich Debes argued for a suspended two-year prison sentence .
But on Friday , another prosecutor involved with the case argued for a minimum of three years for Ewald and 2-1/2 for Happner .
Last month , the United States Olympic Committee 's top drug-testing official , Dr. Wade Exum , resigned in protest .
He charged the USOC both with racism and with " deliberately encouraging the doping of athletes without considering the consequences to the health . "
International Olympic Committee Patrick Schamasch said Friday that he could not comment specifically on Exum 's allegations , but that he knew him to be a good man .
" I 've known Wade for a long time , and I know he was fighting on his own and doing a good job , " he said . "
For a long time he was really the lone voice in the United States . "
on doping




Oracle Shares Keep Sliding Down

SAN FRANCISCO -- Shares of Oracle tumbled for a second session running on Wednesday amid lingering concerns over the departure of the software company 's highly regarded No. 2 executive and fresh profit warnings by other technology companies .
The stock 's two-day loss reached 14 percent after bearish earnings forecasts by BMC Software and Computer Associates International(CA) , as well as a negative report on Oracle , the leading maker of database software , issued by an influential broker .
BMCS
The stock -- which has risen four-fold over the past year with almost no pullback -- was also seen as a prime candidate for profit-taking .
Oracle , the world 's No. 2 software maker , topped the list of most active issues on Nasdaq in afternoon trading , falling 7-7/16 to 72-3/4 on volume of nearly 40 million shares .
ORCL
On Monday , Oracle stock lost 3-7/8 to 80-3/16 .
The market was closed on Tuesday for the U.S. Independence Day holiday .
The resignation of Ray Lane as Oracle 's president and chief operating officer , announced on Friday , came in the immediate aftermath of the embarrassing disclosure that private investigators paid by Oracle rummaged through the trash bins of lobbyists who support its archrival , Microsoft .
MSFT
" There 's a lot on the worry list today for Oracle , " said Bob Austrian of Banc of America Securities , " whether it 's dumpster diving or Lane 's departure .
But there 's more sensationalism here than there is any real business impact . "
Most analysts saw the loss of Lane as likely to create a void at Oracle , as he was viewed as providing a calm and steady balance for Oracle 's volatile chief , Larry Ellison .
On Wednesday , J.P. Morgan analyst William Epifanio cut his rating on Oracle stock to " market performer " from " buy , " calling Lane 's departure as " extremely negative " news for the company .
Oracle said late Friday that Lane , long rumored to be on the verge of leaving the database software giant , would step down , although he will remain on the company 's board of directors .
Oracle later said Ellison , now chairman and chief executive , would assume the duties of president and chief operating officer after Lane 's departure .
Epifanio also said he believed Oracle 's big earnings gains were behind it and that the stock was expensive , trading at 88 times estimated fiscal 2001 earnings , and 73 times 2002 earnings .
Still , Credit Suisse First Boston reiterated a " strong buy " on Oracle , citing cautious optimism that Lane 's departure was not likely to create a meaningful disruption .
" The timing is unsettling , " said Austrian of Banc of America Securities . "
The company is on the verge of enjoying some of the most unique prosperity in its history .
He 's been a great contributor .
But it 's not a really big issue .
They have a great management team . "
Lane , who joined Oracle eight years ago from consulting company Booz Allen & Hamilton , is widely credited with helping Oracle modify aggressive sales and accounting practices in the early 1990s that dragged down its stock price .
Ellison , who founded Oracle in 1977 , has been responsible for Oracle 's overall strategic direction , but Lane had been lauded by Wall Street analysts for restoring Oracle 's credibility with the investment community .




Dreamworks Launches A&R.com

Dream Weaver : Following in the footsteps of farmclub.com , Dreamworks Records launched an A&R website that allows bands to upload songs directly to the record company .
While the website does n't promise to streamline the signing process , A&R executive Luke Wood said this opens up opportunities for bands to be discovered .
" In the record business , we do n't normally take unsolicited music , " Wood said . "
Traditionally , labels have n't accepted music that did n't come from an agent or manager . "
Bands located outside big cities will now have a greater opportunity to compete for recording contracts as well , although the odds are still stacked against them .
" Much of the recording industry has been regionalized so that big city bands always had an advantage , " Wood said . "
With this , small town bands now have a chance to be heard .
We 're saying now that the doors are open , but not wide open . "
Bands can submit one song every three months to the site .
If the tune happens to catch the fancy of one of the execs , the band then enters the same old A&R pipeline .
But even if a band does n't get picked up by the label , Wood said he hopes to develop other avenues for bands unsuitable for Dreamworks .
" Ultimately , we are going to have unsigned streaming radio , taking the best music that we get and putting that into a channel , " he said . "
I see this site as a significant step in the direction . "
While Wood emphasized that this venture was drastically different than Universal 's farmclub.com site , they have taken one lesson to heart .
" This is a non-exclusive agreement , " Wood said , referring to who owns the rights to songs uploaded to the site . "
We do n't own anything . "
---
Fan Blitz : Musicblitz has come up with a novel solution to selling music on the Internet -- give fans more than a piece of plastic in a jewel case .
With its new Fan Edition program , the Presidents are offering a backstage pass that gives their fanatics access to the making of their album Freaked Out and Small to be released in September .
formerly the Presidents of the United States of America
Along with pre-purchasing the CD , fans will also get regular installments of streaming video from the studio , band diaries , in-studio photos , and MP3 downloads .
" Fan Edition gives consumers a complete package that offers more value than the music alone , " said Bret More , vice president of product development at Musicblitz .
---
Mu Better Bu 's : The new sonic-based search engine just launched today , but MuBu is already the talk of the industry .
By analyzing s user 's responses to sound clips , the engine creates a sonic " fingerprint . "
This helps listeners find music they like , but might have never found on their own .
Users are offered a series of steps in creating their fingerprint , ranging from searching broad genres all the way down to tweaking minute details by adding " sonically appropriate adjectives " such as " funky , " or my personal favorite , " twangy . "
Unlike text-based engines , MuBu does n't require any knowledge of song titles or artists names .
---
Michael 's World : In the land of mp3.com , artists and businesses both got a bump this week .
In the spirit of charging fans for music , mp3.com launched a new service giving musicians the opportunity to host subscription channels on the company 's servers .
Artists now have access to a warehouse which houses all their offline merchandise as well .
Through an agreement with CafePress.com , bands can now upload artwork , design products and open an online store where they can sell their schwag .
Also new for the music company is an in-store hardware component dubbed MP3 Media Server 1.0 that allows businesses to create play lists from mp3.com artists -- for a small fee , of course .
---
Major 's Eye Browser : Working with their friends at NeoPlanet , customers can download a customized web browser from Interscope Geffen A&M Records .
Already on the market are Beck , Big Bad Voodoo Daddy and No Doubt browsers , with an Eminem version due later this summer .
The browsers come packed with links to other Geffen artists , customizable skins , and images of the band .
---
Vitamin Chuck D : Rapstation.com is going International .
The online music community Vitaminic , which promotes and distributes music primarily in seven European countries , will now broadcast over 800 artists from Chuck D 's hip-hop website .
Vitaminic offers consumers samples and downloads of music , along with the option to purchase albums .




Canada Takes DNA Database Lead

OTTAWA -- Canada unveiled on Wednesday what it said was the world 's most sophisticated DNA database , capable of identifying criminals through analysis of minute amounts of blood , semen , or skin cells .
The DNA Data Bank will include samples of DNA -- the unique building blocks of every living thing -- from young offenders as well as adults who are convicted of serious crimes .
It will also include DNA taken from crime scenes .
DNA databases already exist in the United States , Germany , Britain , Norway , Finland , Belgium , and Denmark .
But Canadian officials said the new C$10 million database , located at the Royal Canadian Mounted Police headquarters in Ottawa , was the most automated and sophisticated of its kind .
" I would think that Canada stands on firm ground as being one of the forerunners in this technology and certainly we 've done a great deal to improve the speed of the analysis , " said Dr. Ron Fourney , who is in charge of the database .
" The innovations we 've developed that make it unique will be the robotics and certainly the cost effectiveness , " he told a news conference at the official launch .
Solicitor-General Lawrence MacAuley , the minister in overall charge of Canada 's law enforcement agencies , said the database was a powerful tool that would change the way in which police conducted many criminal investigations .
" It will help solve serious crimes more quickly and assist in identifying repeat offenders more effectively and with more certainty .
It will help police to focus their resources on key suspects by excluding the innocent more quickly , " he said .
The Mounties have been using DNA analysis since 1989 and the new database marks a major step forward in the fight against violent , sexual and repeat offenders , who will be required to give blood samples .
The database -- will cost C$5 million a year to run -- takes five days to process a single sample .
Police estimate some 30,000 samples from known serious offenders , suspected criminals , and crime scenes will be processed a year .
" When we started 10 years we might have needed a biological sample which was the size of a penny .
ago
Today 's technology is so revolutionary that 10 percent of what would fit on the head of a pin is all we 'd need to do a case , " Fourney said .
Officials stressed that to protect the right to privacy , stringent safeguards had been built into the system to ensure suspects ' names did not appear on the DNA samples .
Fourney said Canada was negotiating with other nations that possess DNA databanks to set up a system whereby genetic information can be exchanged .
Samples from convicted criminals will be kept permanently on file so that they can be processed again once more advanced technology becomes available .
" I think the DNA Data Bank will be as revolutionary a tool for law enforcement today as fingerprinting was when it was first introduced 100 years ago , " said Superintendent Lee Fraser , manager of Canada 's Forensic Identification Service .
" Our goal is to catch criminals and in the game of crime , knowing who the bad guys are , being able to single them out and linking them irrefutably to their crimes is a very important tool , " he told the news conference .




No More Cold Doctor Hands

When a doctor performs an abdominal examination on a patient , she often has to rely on her hands to do much of the guesswork , pushing and probing and ferreting out bumps and lumps .
Tender livers , pea-size tumors , and swollen spleens are often diagnosed this way , and followed up with high-resolution scans that take precise recordings of the size and location of those bumps and lumps .
This meshing of touch and technology does n't work so well , however , for folks who live in remote locations where there are no MRIs .
Rural patients often find themselves traveling long distances for tests and pictures .
But a new virtual reality glove being developed by researchers at the State University of New York at Buffalo promises to change that .
Thenkurussi Kesavadas , director of the university 's Virtual Reality Lab and principal investigator on the project , said the glove -- equipped with tiny sensors in the fingertips -- will truly allow sensations of pressure to be transmitted to another person .
Here 's how it works : A doctor , wearing the glove , examines a patient .
The data from the exam is stored in a computer system , where it will remain until it is transmitted to a second doctor who needs to access that data .
The information will be transmitted to the second doctor through a haptic feedback device , a small , transportable robot that fits on a user 's hand like a thimble .
The robot allows a user to manipulate an image on a computer screen and feel the physical results of that virtual manipulation .
" He pokes there and he would feel in his finger that he 's actually touching it , " Kesavadas said .
at the computer screen with the pointer
In short , the glove means a patient and his doctor will n't necessarily have to be in the same room , or even in the same state .
The glove is expected to create a big stir in the medical world .
" From a medical standpoint , it 's important for a number of reasons , " said James Mayrose , assistant professor at University of Buffalo 's department of emergency medicine and one of the glove 's designers .
He said the glove has important teaching implications , and could drastically improve the way a new doctor learns how to palpate a patient .
The glove system is based on the National Institutes of Health 's Visible Human Project , a detailed , three-dimensional representation of the complete male and female human bodies initially envisioned as a high-tech teaching tool .
But the Visible Human Project is strictly a visual aid , a digital cadaver of sorts .
The glove is different .
" To teach medical students what to feel and what to look for when they palpate is very difficult , " he said . " tells us how much force is being applied , and the direction to which the force is being applied . "
The glove
Researchers expect the glove , which is being tested in a clinical study with human subjects at Erie County Medical Center , will be available for use within two years .
Mayrose said he expects some initial hesitance from doctors who might think they 're being replaced by a fancy glove .
But he insists that 's not the case .
" With the glove , the physician does n't lose their sense of touch .
We want to enhance it , not replace it , " he said .
The new glove will be officially announced at the World Congress on Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering in Chicago next month .




Fine Time for Cellphone Abusers

SAO PAULO , Brazil -- A Brazilian city has decided it is time to gag those who gab on mobile phones in public places where concentration is prized .
Residents of the thriving city of Campinas will be yanked out of their movie seats , escorted out of libraries , or barred from classrooms if their cellular telephones ring , a local legislator said on Wednesday .
Warning signs posted in public arenas , including conference centers and schoolrooms , will forbid Campinas ' wired residents from nattering .
Failure to post the warning will incur a fine of 425 reais , according to a law that went into effect last week .
US$ 236
" People who can n't manage to switch off from the world for just two hours deserve our pity , " said Luis Yabiku , a sponsor of the law and a councilman in the city of 1 million , located 60 miles from Sao Paulo .
" I do n't have anything against cellphones but we have to educate people in their proper use , " said Yabiku , who wants to promote similar legislation nationwide amid an explosion in Brazil 's mobile phone market that pits tranquillity-seekers against communication addicts .
The number of cellular phones in Brazil is forecast to almost quadruple in three years to 58 million -- one phone for every three Brazilians .




Never Enough Storage Space

Compaq and IBM have agreed to create interoperable data storage network products and will develop industry standards in a project whose value could exceed $ 1 billion .
Compaq , the world 's leading personal computer maker , and IBM , the world 's top maker of mainframe computers , said they will make sure their storage products work together in order to build customer acceptance of open storage networking products .
The companies also plan to sell products from each other 's storage portfolios as they go head-to-head with EMC Corp. , the data storage equipment leader .
They said they will share their knowledge with the industry to help create standards that will make storage networks more flexible and easier to deploy and manage .
- - -
Network appliances : Nokia said Thursday that it has an agreement with Whirlpool to develop networked appliances for the home .
Nokia said the agreement came amid growing interest in how users of home appliances could benefit from new technologies such as Internet and wireless connectivity .
Swedish rival Ericsson has also been active in the move to create a wireless home linking devices like mobile phones with home appliances .
Ericsson has a deal with Swedish Electrolux to develop Internet-friendly appliances .
- - -
Celebrity gossip for AOL : America Online said Thursday it formed a three-year content and promotional pact with E Online , the home page of E Entertainment Networks .
Under the deal , E Online and E Entertainment Television will provide their entertainment news and celebrity gossip across several AOL brands , including the recently-introduced AOLTV .
Financial terms were not disclosed .
Under the new agreement , E Online will be an anchor tenant on AOL 's Entertainment Channel and AOL 's Celebrities area .
E will also provide entertainment-related content across Netscape Netcenter , AOL Moviefone , and messaging service ICQ .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Calling All Virgins

Virgin Atlantic said on Thursday it had become the first airline to allow passengers to receive phone calls to their mobile phone numbers while in flight .
A Virgin statement said it was also developing a system allowing passengers to send and receive email .
The phone system , developed by British Telecommunications , allows passengers to charge air-to-ground calls to their GSM accounts and to receive mobile calls on the plane 's handsets .
After boarding , the passenger swipes a Mobile Connect card through the aircraft handset and dials a registration number .
Callers to the GSM number pay only for the ground call .
A new system being developed by Matsushita Avionics will also give 200 hours of digital video on demand , Virgin said .




Verio Stock Slides on WSJ Report

Can the FBI put a wiretap on a Japanese phone line , or intercept emails scuttling about a Japanese ISP 's backbone ?
Presumably no , at least not without first getting permission from the Japanese government .
In the U.S. , of course , the FBI taps wires and snares emails all the time , but its jurisdiction to do so stops at the border .
But what if a Japanese company buys a U.S. Net-services provider ?
Will that Japanese-owned service provider continue to give the feds free reign to listen in ?
The FBI apparently is n't so sure .
According to a report in the Wall Street Journal , the FBI has told the U.S. Treasury Department it has " national security concerns " about the proposed sale of American ISP Verio to NTT , Japan 's dominant telco .
In response , the Treasury Department 's Committee on Foreign Investment has begun a 45-day review of the planned sale .
NTT confirmed the committee review last week , but says it fully intends to comply with all U.S. laws and expects no snags in the review .
Nonetheless , the news is putting a dent on Verio 's stock price , which has fallen almost 10 percent since the news of the Treasury review first surfaced last week .
It fell $ 1.60 , or 3 percent , Thursday to close at $ 54.50 , well below NTT 's $60-per share cash offer .
While the FBI has voiced concerns about the acquisition of U.S. telcos by foreign companies before , it 's never thrown the flag on a Net deal .
And the timing of its objection to the NTT/Verio tie-up has some experts wondering if the agency is helping the Clinton administration play trade-policy politics .
Washington and Toyko have been in a pitched trade battle in recent months over the fees charged by NTT , Japan 's former state phone monopoly , for allowing other carriers to connect to its nationwide local phone network .
The Clinton administration has demanded that NTT lower the fees .
NTT has n't budged .
But it might budge if the U.S. waves around the threat of scotching the Japanese firm 's $ 5.5 billion bid for Verio , said some professional stock traders .
" It 's a political lever the government is sort of groping at , " said one professional stock arbitrageur .
Still , other experts believe the FBI 's concerns are heartfelt .
The FBI 's biggest fear , the Journal reported , is that NTT might move Verio 's Net traffic offshore and out of U.S. jurisdiction .
The FBI wants U.S. Net traffic to go over U.S.-owned , and therefore easily tapped , wires .
" There 's a debate in the community as far as how much of this is based on the trade dispute versus legitimate FBI concerns , " one professional arbitrageur said . "
arbitrageur
We happen to be of the camp that there 's an element of both , but mostly that there are valid concerns by the FBI , " he said .
Reuters contributed to this report .




It Pays to Cheat , Not Surf

With the proliferation of " pay-to-surf " sites comes a growing number of users who are cheating the system .
At last count , there were over 50 pay-to-surf sites on the Internet -- and with it are numerous opportunities for Web swindlers .
Any popular search engine can help aspiring cheaters find a plethora of available programs for " P2S " websites .
In a matter of minutes , cheaters can find and install a program that will allow them to bypass the ad viewbars and other features mandated by the sites .
One experienced cheater first started using the programs in March 1999 and says he makes a few hundred dollars each month by cheating .
" There 's literally no limit to how much you can earn , " said the hacker , who goes by the alias " Spike . "
" If you max out one of the accounts you have , you just create another and refer another account to your main account .
Then you get double the money plus a little extra for the referral . "
The majority of P2S companies work through a viewbar on the surfer 's desktop .
When activated , the viewbar tracks sites visited on the Web in addition to displaying ads based on online activity .
Users are paid on a per-hour basis and can make more money if they refer others to the site .
Cheaters generally target newer P2S companies that are more likely to have weaker security .
The cheat programs are relatively simple ; most of them merely cycle through websites or move the mouse -- making it appear as if the user is actively surfing .
A basic knowledge of Delphi or Visual Basic is all that 's required to write up one of these programs , said one hacker .
" Moving a mouse -- or telling the browser to surf to another page -- is not really a hard job to do , " said " TFR , " a hacker affiliated with the United Hackers Association . "
Programs that have more features are mostly coded by people with good programming skills . "
A number of websites have sprung up in response to the growing digital chicanery .
AllAdvantageCheats allows surfers to get the latest updates for utilities that allow them to bypass many of the features for AllAdvantage , the seminal P2S website .
In addition , there are several forums for newbie cheaters to obtain information .
One bulletin board catering to cheaters boasts over 3,000 members where users can get the latest updates for cheat software and swap advice and tips .
Richard Kahn , CEO of PaidForSurf.com , said that his company deletes around 100 cheat accounts daily .
" are responsible for a good amount of money coming out of the program , about 40 percent , " he said . "
Cheaters
They are lowering the payout for other users . "
Kahn said his company recently installed filters that will catch 90 percent of all cheaters .
" These people are hurting our industry as a whole .
Advertisers pick up on and they do n't want to advertise with them , " said Kahn . "
vulnerable companies
If there are any pay-to-surf companies that want to be here for more than six months , they have to find a way to get around the cheaters on the network . "
In addition , Kahn said that his company is working with the FBI in catching cheaters and is building a database of names , email , and mailing addresses , in addition to IP addresses .




' Carnivore ' Eats Your Privacy

WASHINGTON -- An FBI surveillance system called Carnivore is alarming privacy advocates and some members of Congress .
Agents typically install the specialized computer on the networks of Internet providers , where it intercepts all communications and records sent to or from the target of an investigation , the Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday .
An FBI spokesman told the paper that the agency typically has about 20 Carnivore computers on hand to use when conducting Internet monitoring in compliance with court orders .
But some critics say the practice of intercepting the network traffic of all users , even for a brief period of time , could run afoul of federal privacy laws and even the U.S. Constitution 's prohibition on unreasonable searches and seizure .
" It 's the electronic equivalent of listening to everybody 's phone calls to see if it 's the phone call you should be monitoring .
You develop a tremendous amount of information , " Mark Rasch , a former federal prosecutor , told the Journal .
Representative Bob Barr , a conservative privacy advocate , said , " If there 's one word I would use to describe this , it would be ' frightening .
R-Ga .
' "
Not all Internet service providers seem to like the idea of a government computer silently recording their network traffic , especially since Carnivore systems are typically kept in locked boxes , and at least one company is challenging the practice in court .
The FBI reportedly dubbed the system " Carnivore " because it has the ability to get at the " meat " of interesting or suspicious communications .
The FBI says such automated monitoring is necessary to perform surveillance on packet-switched networks , and successfully persuaded Congress in 1994 to require telephone companies to make their digital networks readily snoopable .
The bulk of legal wiretaps are used to investigate drug-related crimes , according to annual statistics published by the U.S. federal court system .
FBI Director Louis Freeh has in the past pressed for limits on what encryption technology Americans may use , and the FBI last year unsuccessfully asked the Internet Engineering Task Force to build support for wiretaps into network protocols .




Nuke Cleanup a Chernobyl Effort

BERLIN -- Forty countries have pledged $ 370 million to clean up the Chernobyl nuclear reactor , which killed an estimated 30,000 people during the world 's worst nuclear disaster in 1986 .
In return , the Ukraine has promised to shut down the entire Chernobyl plant .
The announcement came Wednesday after a two-day pledging conference in Berlin , co-chaired by German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer and Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yushchenko .
It brings to $ 715 million the Chernobyl Shelter Fund pledged by international governments and the European Union for urgent repairs to the concrete structure covering Chernobyl 's ruined fourth reactor .
The potential danger of the fourth reactor persists because of the highly radioactive material contained under the existing facility .
Water is thought to be penetrating through many leaks and there are thought to be high risks of radioactive dust escaping into the surrounding atmosphere and of highly contaminated water seeping into the national water supply .
The total pledge announced Wednesday includes the equivalent to $ 152 million by the European Commission , the executive branch of the 15-nation European Union .
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development set up the Chernobyl Shelter Fund to pay for the Shelter Implementation Plan , which was adopted by the Ukraine and the Group of Seven industrialized nations in 1997 .
An international team of experts developed the plan in an effort to make the structure safe .
The Chernobyl explosion was caused by a combination of human and design failures .
A substantial portion of fission waste and fuel in the reactor core was released directly to the environment .
Workers at the power plant , 120 kilometers north of Kiev , were carrying out an experiment with its safety system when the accident blew the roof off the reactor building .
75 miles
Chernobyl 's second reactor was closed in 1991 after a fire and its first reactor was closed in 1996 after pressure from the G7 nations .
Last month , Ukraine 's President Leonid Kuchma said Chernobyl 's third reactor will close in December .
Repairs to the Soviet-built reactor cover , due to be completed in 2005 , are expected to ensure Chernobyl 's safety for another 50 to 100 years .
Long-term safety plans include constructing a hermetically sealed dome over the existing plant , or more ambitiously , removing the radioactive debris and returning Chernobyl to a green field site .
As well as paying for repairs , the shelter project will fund projects to study , assess , and mitigate the consequences of the Chernobyl accident .
Money will also be used to help decommission the remaining Chernobyl reactors , to address the social and regional consequences of Chernobyl 's closure , and to support power sector reform , including non-nuclear energy projects in Ukraine .
The Ukrainian government currently expends nearly 12 percent of its national budget on dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl accident .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS




Crypto Users Can n't See FBI.gov

Is the FBI blocking privacy-equipped browsers from its website ?
The question goes unanswered a week after users of a commercial privacy service found themselves unable to access the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's fbi.gov site .
" You can n't access fbi.gov if you have a Freedom ' nym ' running , " confirmed Dov Smith , spokesman for Zero-Knowledge Systems , which runs Freedom.net , the privacy service affected by the problem .
Zero-Knowledge began an investigation after postings by users of Freedom mentioned the problem last week on the " cypherpunks " mailing list , a popular discussion forum for privacy and encryption enthusiasts .
The company and the FBI have yet to find a likely cause , which could be political or technical in nature .
Zero-Knowledge 's Freedom service uses encryption and other security technology to secure users ' identities as they traverse the Internet .
Freedom subscribers create multiple digital identities called pseudonyms -- or " nyms " -- each associated with different Internet activities .
The nyms use a network of proxy servers , strong encryption keys , and digital signatures to prevent identifying data from flowing out of users ' computers .
The FBI has publicly stated its concerns about the use of strong encryption on the Internet mainly because of the obstacles scrambled data poses to law enforcement .
That 's why eyebrows went up when Freedom users typed fbi.gov only to find the FBI 's website just does n't load .
Meanwhile , users who disabled their " nyms " were able to access the site as usual .
Was there an ulterior motive in the FBI 's cyberspace no-show ?
The mailing list participants have drawn a connection between the problem and FBI Director Louis Freeh 's past statements about encryption 's danger to crime-fighting efforts , according to Smith , whose company monitors the mailing list .
But Zero-Knowledge is n't ready to read political meaning into the incident , which Freedom users said is the first time they have been blocked from a website .
" It did raise eyebrows and I think it 's probably a very sexy story for a lot of people because of the positions the FBI has taken on strong crypto -- and the fact that we are a company that deploys very strong cryptography , " Smith said . "
Hopefully we 'll get to the bottom of that very soon . "
Just as it told Zero-Knowledge representatives , the FBI said it has no answers as to the cause of the problem but in general it would never seek to block access to its site .
" I can n't speak to whether or not there 's a problem , but I can tell you on our part there 's no intention to deny anybody , " said FBI spokesman Rex Tomb . "
That I 'm aware of , there 's no attempt to block anybody from looking at the FBI 's Web page and there 's no incentive for us to do it , " said Tomb .
He added that the FBI site has never blocked any kind of Internet traffic . "
The more people that can see that page the more we like it .
That 's the whole reason we have it . "
" I 'm going out on a limb here -- could it be that this software makes it difficult to interface with firewall or other considerations ? "
Tomb said .
Zero-Knowledge 's Smith said his company is hoping to collaborate with FBI engineers to explore all possible causes , from an intentional " blockage " to a so-far unprecedented technical problem with Freedom software .




OK , What 's NUG30 Times Pi ?

A clunky old PC sitting on some desk at a research lab might not look like much -- and by itself it might not be much -- but do n't judge it too quickly .
It might be a sort of beige Clark Kent , a supercomputer in disguise .
Or at least part of a supercomputer .
That lesson was reiterated last week by a team of researchers from Northwestern University , the University of Iowa , and Argonne National Laboratory .
Using networking software , the researchers combined the computing power of more than 1,000 Net-connected PCs and workstations -- idle computers spread across 30 different research facilities -- to solve a vastly complex , 32-year-old math problem called NUG30 that would 've taken more than seven years to complete on a single , super-fast computer workstation .
" The availability of this powerful , easily programmable , low-cost computing platform has tremendous implications for the solution of complex optimization problems and for the computational sciences in general , " said Jean-Pierre Goux , a research associate at Northwestern 's Optimization Technology Center , in a statement .
To solve NUG30 , a 30-factor quadratic assignment problem designed in 1968 to test the limits of computing power , researchers used a computing system called Condor to connect the far-flung PCs and workstations into a single computational grid , each unit working in parallel with all the others .
QAP
Because the Condor system tapped into idle PCs and workstations that the labs already owned , it saved a fortune compared to the costs of booking supercomputer time .
Armed with a newly designed algorithm , the Condor-connected computers then crunched NUG30 .
Last year , before the algorithm was developed , NUG30 was considered too complex to be tackled by modern computers -- sans algorithm , even the worlds fastest supercomputer would 've been too slow to tackle it .
In order to solve NUG30 , each of its 30 assigned factors has to be assessed against every variable of every other factor assignment until the correct combination of all 30 is found .
While that might seem like something computers could easily do , it is n't , said researchers .
" You might think that a with a fast computer , you could just check all the possible assignments and choose the best one , " said Kurt Anstreicher , a researcher at the University of Iowa . "
But the number of assignments is so large that even if you could check a trillion per second , this process would take more than 100 times the age of the universe . "
Assisted by the algorithm , the researcher 's networked-computer grid performed the required calculations in just seven days .
" NUG30 only hints at the incredible future for the use of computational grids for solving complex problems in numerical computing , " said Steve Wright , a researcher at Argonne Labs , in a statement .




Cellphones , Shut Up !

The rudest , most annoying sound of the young millennium is about to be muffled .
At least that 's the plan of one wireless company , which says it is developing an application that automatically lowers the alert tone volumes on cellphones .
North Carolina-based BlueLinx , which produces consumer applications for short-range wireless systems , and a telecommunications center at the University of Adelaide in Australia are developing a feature for mobile phones that interacts with Bluetooth shortwave radio-link systems in public places .
The feature is designed to automatically silence cellphone ringing .
Once outside of the 33-foot Bluetooth coverage area - a standard established by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group -- cellphones with the " Q-Zone " feature will resume ringing at their normal pitch .
Bluetooth SIG is comprised of 1,800 wireless industry players who predict bluetooth will be integrated throughout society -- from soda machines to security systems , and yes , even to the lights of conference rooms -- to muffle cellphones .
" If you are a doctor , you can override the Q-Zone feature on your cellphone , " said Mary Beth Griffin , BlueLinx executive vice president . "
The beauty of this is that it is unconscious and you do n't have to press any buttons .
It would be in the user interface on your telephone . "
Griffin 's company has already piqued interest for " quiet zones " in restaurants , churches , theaters , and companies with conference rooms .
However , the company has yet to form partnerships with cellphone manufacturers that can incorporate Q-Zone on their products ' interfaces .
And cellphone manufacturers including Nokia and Ericsson indicate that they do n't plan to dash the silent or vibrating mode on their cellphones for Bluetooth compliance any time soon .
Still , Motorola , also a member of the Bluetooth SIG , said it is currently developing bluetooth-enabled " smart applications . "
The mobile phone manufacturer says products made by members of the Bluetooth SIG will adopt the organization 's standards and automatically be able to interact with each other .
" As far as development goes , we are looking at equipping our devices with Bluetooth capabilities , " Motorola spokeswoman Jane Glover said . "
What is exciting about bluetooth to us is the ability to add on to it . "
BlueLinx CEO Jeff Griffin and his wife , Mary Beth Griffin , incorporated their company a year ago and decided to use Bluetooth technology to muffle cellphones when their church service was interrupted by a ringing cellphone .




Privacy Suit Targets Netscape

A New Jersey-based website operator has filed a class action lawsuit charging that AOL/Netscape 's Internet software violates electronic privacy law .
The suit alleges that the companies secretly monitor file transfers between Internet sites and Internet users .
" Unbeknownst to ... defendants have been spying on their Internet activities , " said the complaint , which was filed June 30 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District Court of New York by New Jersey-based website operator Chris Specht .
Netscape users
The " SmartDownload " feature in the Netscape Communicator Web browser secretly transmits file download information to Netscape and America Online , it states .
which acquired Netscape in 1998
Chris Specht " has executable files he offers to Internet users browsing his sites to be downloaded , and he does not like the fact that Netscape is tracking file downloads on his website , " said Specht 's attorney Joshua Rubin , of New York law firm Abbey , Gardy & Squitieri .
Seeking to represent all affected website operators and users , Specht 's class action suit claims the Netscape software 's behavior violates two 1986 laws governing privacy in electronic communications .
America Online did not respond to repeated requests for comment on the suit .
The Communicator product information describes SmartDownload as software that assists users downloading files from Internet sites .
In addition to allowing users to pause downloads and continue them during a later connection , Netscape says the product shows " informative content from Netcenter while downloading . "
This electronic awareness of all download activity conducted with SmartDownload is the target of Specht 's complaint .
The suit specifies Netscape 's collection of data that identifies the name , type , and source of executable files users downloads , which Netscape collects along with cookie information that uniquely identifies the user .
The Netscape product material does briefly mention privacy policy : " As we expand the services of SmartDownload and its InfoBrowser , SmartDownload Profiling will allow us to send you customized information about the file you are downloading .
To protect your privacy , none of this information is saved . "
It also notes that the feature can be turned off .
But Specht 's suit charges that the " continuing surveillance " and uniquely identifying cookies let Netscape , over time , create a " continuing profile " of each visitor 's file transfers .
" Your electronic communications are being bugged , " said Rubin . " ...
The contents of an Internet server 's computer -- which contains communications between the site and the user -- is being compromised . "
The suit lays out an example : " If an Internet user uses SmartDownload to download Microsoft 's Internet Explorer from Microsoft 's Web site , SmartDownload will transmit to defendants the Internet user 's identification string along with the name of the file and the file 's location on the Internet ...
In so doing , Netscape is using SmartDownload to eavesdrop . "
The suit says the company is in violation of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 , which addresses privacy issues that arose with the increased use of computers and electronic communications systems in the 1980s .
The act updated the codes , which were established in 1968 , to clarify invasion of privacy when electronic surveillance is involved .
The second act cited , the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 , clarifies criminal fraud and abuse felonies for federal computer crimes .
On this legal footing , Specht 's suit seeks statutory damages : the greater of $ 100 per day for every day the software has been available , or $ 10,000 per user for " theft of private information " on behalf of himself and all affected Netscape users .
it was introduced in late 1998
Junkbusters ' privacy advocate Jason Catlett said the suit is a descendant of a class action lawsuit filed after it was discovered that RealNetworks ' music playback software was tracking users ' listening habits .
In November 1999 , a Pennsylvania law firm filed a still-pending class action suit charging that RealNetworks violated the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act , as well as state privacy laws and consumer protection statutes .
Soon after the practice was discovered , RealNetworks modified the software to cease the collection of data .
" Companies whose software collects information surreptitiously can now routinely expect to see these kinds of lawsuits , so we 're starting to see more fine print , " Catlett said in an email . "
posted on the websites
At least that 's easier to read than an executable file . "
If Specht 's lawsuit , or the case against RealNetworks , is successful , companies could be forced to rethink their privacy policies .
" If a jury ever awards significant damages , all companies will be forced to change their attitude towards ' spyware , ' because it will become a significant investment risk , " Catlett said .




Anybody Remember Pay Phones ?

Your next trip to the pay phone may be cheaper and longer than you expect .
You 'll wait in line at the terminal while people make phone calls , play video games , check email , access the Internet , and videotape themselves so their photographs can accompany email messages .
Calls , even long-distances ones , will be free , because advertisers will sponsor the booths .
As prices drop and cellular phones become ubiquitous , companies that own traditional pay phones are scrambling for ways to compete against a rapidly growing mobile industry .
An estimated 1.6 million pay phones remain nationwide , compared with about 80 million cell phones , according to the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association .
The Washington organization predicts that the number of cellular phones will continue to climb as the devices become smaller and cheaper .
Some companies that own pay phones admit the mobile industry has cut into their profits , but they deny that cell phones will trump their terminals to extinction because not everyone owns a mobile phone .
Besides , they counter , what happens when the batteries run out ?
However , U.S. telecommunications giants AT&T and the Bell companies are abandoning their traditional phone-booth model .
They 're developing kiosks and terminals with touch screens that access the Internet and allow users to send and receive email , including photographs of themselves in the phone terminal .
" The pay phone as it is today -- there is no growth , " said Peter Catalena , founder of NetNearU , a public Internet access terminal and software business that recently agreed to provide AT&T , Bell Atlantic , GTE , and Sprint with kiosk terminals . "
The good locations have all been taken , and what were good locations are n't good locations anymore .
" As email picks up popularity in growth -- and it has tremendously -- people will want to access email more than their voicemail . "
Catalena and NetNearU 's other founder , Dennis Goehring , started the Texas Payphone Association and once owned a business called Texas Coinphone , which operated 1,400 pay phones in the state .
They sold their business in 1997 because " the price was right and the pay phone route business as we knew it was in its prime , " Catalena said .
They founded PayNet Communications in 1996 and later renamed it NetNearU .
The company has installed 400 kiosk terminals in airports , truck stops , hotels , major retail outlets , and restaurants around the country .
The company 's next kiosk models , expected to be available by the end of the year , will include handheld sets to make phone calls .
Bell Atlantic , which operates 90 percent of public pay phone booths in the Northeast , is braced for the fierce competition from mobile phones .
After experiencing a 14 percent drop in pay phone revenues in 1999 -- following a 10 percent decline in 1998 -- the company partnered with NetNearU and in April introduced three kiosk terminals at T.F. Green Airport in Providence , Rhode Island .
The company gained 30 percent more than its projected profits in the kiosks ' first week of existence , said Bell Atlantic spokesman Jim Smith .




Potter Sets Amazon on ' Fire '

Harry Potter 's latest wizard adventure has become the biggest seller in the history of online bookstores , Amazon said Friday .
" The customer response we have seen for Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire is outstanding , " a spokesman said as London staff worked through the night to get orders ready for shipping before Saturday 's publication date .
One in 150 children in Britain have pre-ordered a copy and the spokesman said , " Nearly 400,000 copies have been sold worldwide by Amazon , making it the biggest selling book in e-tailing history . "
The schoolboy wizard is to take a long , hard look at death in the latest saga -- and the children of the world can hardly wait .
For Scottish author J.K. Rowling has captured young imaginations around the globe with her tales of a geeky teenager 's adventures at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The first three Harry Potter books sold 30 million copies and have been translated into 31 languages .
- - -
Microsoft backs off : Microsoft has agreed to limit its investment in British cable company Telewest Communications to a minority stake , so the European Commission said it no longer needs to review the transaction .
" This means that Microsoft no longer has joint control over Telewest , leading it to withdraw its notification of the original deal , " the EC said in a statement . "
Consequently , the Commission will not take any further action . "
The European Commission , the EU 's antitrust watchdog , began an in-depth investigation into the deal in March , saying it was worried about its impact on the digital cable industry , in particular the provision of software for digital set-top boxes in Britain .
With Microsoft relinquishing legal control over Telewest , the deal no longer requires approval under the EU 's merger regulation .
The EC said it would continue its efforts to ensure healthy competition in the market for set-top box software .
- - -
Japanese threat to U.S. security ? : NTT Communications , a unit of Japanese telecom giant NTT , played down concerns Friday that its $ 5.5 billion bid for Internet service provider Verio poses a threat to U.S. national security .
The Japanese firm also said it was ready to extend its tender offer in response to approval delays resulting from an investigation .
" We do n't think our bid will cause any major national security problems .
We hope to win understanding swiftly and to complete the deal successfully , " said a spokesman for NTT 's long-distance and international phone service arm .
U.S. government
Shares in Verio took a beating on Thursday after The Wall Street Journal reported that the FBI had raised national-security concerns about NTT 's takeover bid for Verio , which manages Web sites for some 400,000 businesses .
- - -
Internet insurance plan : Lloyd 's of London said Thursday that it will support a " first of its kind " insurance plan for e-commerce and Internet security .
The plan , offered by Counterpane Internet Security , will protect against loss of revenues and information assets caused by Internet and e-commerce security breaches , the companies said .
They said the plan will offer up to $ 100 million in coverage .
" With over 1 trillion dollars in IT expenditures forecasted by Gartner Group over the next four years , it has become critical to offer additional assurances when conducting business electronically , " said John Bruce , a Counterpane vice president .
- - -
T-Online eyeballs Infoseek : T-Online , a German Internet service provider , is talking with Walt Disney about buying Disney 's 25 percent stake in search engine Infoseek , T-Online 's parent company Deutsche Telekom said .
Deutsche Telekom spokesman Stephan Broszio said Friday that T-Online had already expressed interest in raising its Infoseek stake at T-Online 's flotation earlier this year .
" T-Online is trying to enlarge its position in Infoseek but up until now there are no contracts , " Broszio said .
- - -
Free AIDS drugs for Africa : German pharmacuetical firm Boehringer Ingelheim said on Friday it would provide its AIDS drug Viramune free of charge to help prevent mother-to-child HIV infections in developing countries .
Boehringer , an unlisted company , said in a statement that the five-year offer was part of the initiative by five major drugmakers to slash the cost of treatments for HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
The four other companies are Britain 's Glaxo-Wellcome , Switzerland 's Roche Holding , Merck & Co. , and Bristol-Myers Squibb of the United States .
- - -
Cisco 's buying spree continues : Cisco Systems , the world 's top maker of data networking gear , on Friday said it would buy Netiverse , a developer of technology for speeding the delivery of Web content , for $ 210 million in stock .
Privately-held Netiverse would be the 13th company Cisco has bought so far this year as it continues its breakneck pace of expanding its product portfolio through acquisitions .
Cisco has said it would buy 20 to 25 companies this year .
- - -
Optical boost for 360 networks : 360 networks said Friday it will buy switches and other high-speed optical network equipment from Sycamore Networks worth up to $ 420 million , boosting capacity and allowing new services on the fiber-optic network 360 networks is building .
Under the agreement , 360 networks will purchase Sycamore 's new optical switch , transport products and a network management system .
Once the equipment is running , 360 networks said , it will have an optical network that exceeds the scope and magnitude of any network deployment of optical switches .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Sonar Imaging Could Help Whales

KINGSTON , Rhode Island -- Researchers at the University of Rhode Island have developed a sonar imaging system that could help prevent collisions between ships and whales .
" The leading cause of death for endangered northern right whales is ships running into them , " said James Miller , associate professor of ocean engineering at URI . "
Since there 's just 300 of these whales left in the world , when you lose one it 's a big loss to the population . "
Northern right whales live in the North Atlantic , where shipping traffic is heavy .
Their close cousin , the southern right whale , plies the waters of the South Atlantic where shipping traffic is lighter , and its population is not in danger .
" One difference between the two whale sub-species is the amount of shipping in their territories , " Miller said . "
There 's no doubt that shipping is having a major impact on the northern right whale population . "
Designed to be mounted on the hull of a ship , Miller 's device sends out high-frequency sonar signals that deliver real-time images of what is in front of the ship .
" Most sonar devices typically look straight down below the ship and therefore are n't helpful in navigation , " Miller said . "
The major difference with ours is that it looks forward and has a very high resolution , so it can play a significant role in minimizing ship-whale collisions .
It can also be used to find reefs and submerged rocks that might damage ships . "
Miller said the sonar is ultrasonic for the whales , which means that the frequency of the sonar is beyond their hearing . "
We have seen no indication at all that the whales can even detect the presence of the sonar signal , " he said .
Miller hopes cruise ships and whale-watching ships choose to install the sonar , but warns that commercial ships may need economic incentives to buy the devices .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS




Killer Algae Invades Southern Cal

SAN DIEGO , California -- A mutant algae responsible for killing marine life throughout the Mediterranean has now invaded the seas off San Diego .
The ocean weed smothers marine plants and animals , and releases a toxin that can destroy the eggs of many smaller species .
Divers monitoring the growth of transplanted eel grass discovered the algae on June 12 in a lagoon near the Cabrillo Power Plant I.
That plant pledged earlier this year to restore marine habitat off of Carlsbad , California , about 20 miles north of San Diego .
" This algae eliminates kelp beds and poses an extreme danger to flora and fauna in the area , " said Robert Hoffmann , Southern California environmental coordinator for the National Marine Fisheries Service .
The algae , Caulerpa taxifolia , has destroyed more than 10,000 acres of Mediterranean seabed habitat off of France , Spain , Monaco , and Italy .
Patches of the algae discovered there in the 1980s were not immediately destroyed , allowing the rapidly growing weed to spread .
The algae has also found a foothold in the waters off Sydney , Australia .
This is the first time the algae has been discovered anywhere along the coasts of North and South America .
So far , it has been detected only in the Agua Hedionda lagoon , where the largest patch measures 60 feet by 30 feet .
Nine smaller patches have also been discovered .
Scientists are moving quickly to destroy the algae .
Caulerpa taxifolia is native to tropical waters in the Caribbean and the Indian and Pacific Oceans .
The fast growing toxic variety of the natural plant , responsible for environmental devastation and severe loss of biodiversity everywhere it has invaded , is believed to have resulted from human intervention .
Researchers believe the toxic algae was developed as an aquarium plant by biologists at the Stuttgart Zoo aquarium in Germany .
Other aquariums adopted the bright green , fernlike plant as a cover for their artificial seabeds as well .
The Oceanographic Museum of Monaco apparently dumped some of the algae into the Mediterranean in 1984 , where it spread to cover 1,000 acres by 1992 , and more than 10,000 acres by 1999 .
" It 's beautiful , " said Greig Peters , an environmental specialist with the California Regional Water Quality Control Board in San Diego . "
Maybe that 's the reason people in the Mediterranean were lulled into not taking immediate action . "
Caulerpa drives out most sea life , carpeting the ocean floor and using up oxygen in the water .
The algae smothers fisheries and clam beds , and prevents animals from grazing on invertebrates in bottom muds .
Corals , sponges , and seaweeds are all smothered by its advance .
A toxin in the algae can kill the microscopic marine organisms that form the basis for most marine food chains , and harm the eggs of marine animals .
In 1999 , President Bill Clinton banned the import and sale of Caulerpa in the U.S under the federal Noxious Weed Act .
But hobbyists can still buy the algae from aquarium dealers , warned Hoffman .
When these hobbyists clean their tanks and dump the salt-water contents down storm sewers , the algae can spread to the wild ocean .
This danger was among those pointed out by almost 100 environmental scientists who signed a letter that triggered Clintons executive order against the algae .
In the 1998 letter to Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt , the scientists warned that the adaptable algae can grow to ocean depths of 250 feet , on rocky or sandy sea bottoms , and in protected bays and lagoons .
100 meters
" Allowing the release of this organism into the Mediterranean was an act of environmental mismanagement that threatens catastrophic changes and the loss of biological diversity in one of the most valued marine ecosystems , " the scientists wrote .
Now that Caulerpa is here , officials have little time to control its spread .
" Effects on commercial and recreation fishing in the coastal areas would be severe , " said Hoffman . "
This is a very fast growing species . "
Officials can not simply dig up the patches of Caulerpa in the California lagoon .
The algae spreads through fragmentation , meaning each small piece of the plant can regenerate an entire new plant .
Each plant stem can grow to be nine feet long , carrying up to 200 fronds .
Caulerpa can survive for up to 10 days out of water , reviving and regenerating when high tides or runoff sweep it back into the sea .
Marine biologist Rachel Woodfield , who found the algae in the Agua Hedionda lagoon , said fishing equipment , including nets , hooks , and boat anchors , can help spread the algae . "
Even a tiny piece of the algae broken off can regenerate a new plant , making eradication by mechanical means nearly impossible , " Woodfield said .
Federal , state , and private specialists are testing several chemicals they hope will destroy the plant .
In the nine small areas where Caulerpa has taken root , scientists plan to cover the areas with tarpaulins and saturate them with chlorine or copper sulfate , killing everything under the tarps .
The largest patch may pose more of a problem , but Hoffman said the team hopes to begin attacking all the algae within the next two weeks .
In the meantime , the half-acre patch of the lagoon invaded by the algae has been roped off and placed under 24-hour guard to keep the public out .
The public is urged to notify the California Department of Fish and Game if they observe Caulerpa anywhere along the California coast .
" It could have a drastic impact on fishing , recreation , and endangered species , " said Hoffman . "
It 's very bad news . "
Copyright Environment News Service 1999
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




EverQuest Players Face Off

LAS VEGAS , Nevada -- Is there anything that can make EverQuest addicts log off their multi-player games and participate in real-life interaction ?
Yes , if it involves other EQ addicts .
More than 450 fans of Verant Interactive 's highly addictive online role-playing game journeyed into the sweltering Las Vegas desert Sunday to meet , greet , and put names to faces in the third EQ Gathering event , the largest turnout so far .
The gathering also provided players a chance to meet the designers and top brass from Verant , who got more than an earful of praise , suggestions , and complaints .
At the event Verant announced a second expansion pack for the game , called " The Scars of Velious , " that adds a new continent including new creatures and a whole new territory to explore .
The company only set a tentative release date of December and said that the new territory would be for high-level players , but that was enough tease to keep the crowd happy .
Since its release in March 1999 , EverQuest has attracted more than 250,000 online players .
The bulk of the game is played on the Internet with players creating characters that are stored on Verant 's servers .
The characters go on quests , solve puzzles and riddles , bash lots and lots of monsters and occasionally each other as they make their way through a massive online world .
All three events have been made possible by the efforts of individual fans with minimal help from Verant .
The informal gathering at the Alexis Park Resort was primarily designed to give people who only knew each other from years of chatting online an opportunity to meet face-to-face .
" I thought it would be neat to meet the designers and ask them a few questions , as well as finally meeting people in person rather than through chatting , " said Tim Rowe , who came from Houston , Texas . "
I 've got people all over the world whom I 've chatted with but will never meet , so I wanted a chance to meet some people here . "
" It 's a really social game , which is why people love it , " said Joel Muncaster , of Anaheim , California , who came in a costume inspired by the game . "
You can play for hours without making a level , and people still love it because you can interact with so many other people without leaving your chair . "




Can Digital Kill the Radio Star ?

NEW YORK -- Ground Control to Major Tom : The first satellite for broadcasting coast-to-coast digital radio is now in space .
Sirius Satellite Radio , which launched the orb last week , wants to revitalize an industry that has remained mostly unchanged for decades by getting people to pay for radio .
The Sirius-1 satellite rocket took off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan , the same launch pad used to send Sputnik into space in 1957 .
Within two hours of the launch , the company successfully communicated with the satellite , which will be joined in orbit with two others to provide coast-to-coast digital radio to motorists starting in 2001 .
The satellite is one of three that Sirius will use to broadcast its 100 CD-quality music , news , sports , and talk radio channels for a monthly charge of $ 9.95 .
In addition to the satellites , Sirius will also deploy 100 terrestrial repeaters to provide coverage in areas where structures could interfere with the broadcasts .
Sirius and competitor XM Satellite Radio believe that , like cable TV , customers will pay for niche channels that match their interests and include little or no advertising .
The companies are readying reggae , jazz , classical , and world music channels that will challenge the AM and FM radio stations analysts say are n't serving the 200 million car owners desperate for something else to listen to .
" Traditional radio is n't doing the job in servicing customers , " said William Kidd , satellite analyst at investment firm C.E. Unterberg , Towbin .
Kidd said 80 percent of all listening today in the car is radio , and that the industry -- which has n't seen substantial change since FM was invented more than 60 years ago -- is ripe for innovation . "
It 's hard to imagine that the status quo will be preserved , " Kidd said .
In order to receive the digital signal , cars must be outfitted with new receivers that will cost around $ 280 .
Kidd said adoption should be rapid compared to other industries , since 24 million car radios are sold every year .
He projects that by 2007 , 15 percent of all U.S. cars will have an XM or Sirius-compatible receiver .
Both companies have lined up auto makers Ford , Volvo , Mazda , Mitsubishi , Saab , and Cadillac to make receivers as options or standard equipment in 2001 model-year cars , and have also signed up many of the leading car stereo manufacturers to create components .
The first Sirius and XM receivers will not be compatible , however , so customers will have to choose which service they prefer .
The companies did agree to cross-license their technologies so that future receivers could access both signals .
In addition to carmakers , XM has recently made agreements with trucking industry companies Pana-Pacific and Freightliner , car rental agency Avis , and boating supplier Marine Audio to provide compatible receivers .
Jim Stroud , an analyst with the Carmel Group , said that although there will eventually be portable and home digital receivers , XM and Sirius were smart for going after the auto market first .
" At home people can watch TV , movies , or listen to the radio , but in cars , radio is the only broadcast entertainment available , " he said . "
You really have a captive audience . "
Stroud said that although MP3.com and Napster are changing music listening , digital satellite radio will likely have more impact -- and a higher adoption rate . "
Napster may have 15 million users , but they are n't paying $ 10 per month for a subscription , " Stroud said .
The broadcasters believe that customers will leap at the chance to pay for quality radio for the same reason cable TV has proven a success : better variety and fewer commercials .
Radio listeners frustrated by the exclusionary and repetitive practices of the FM stations that have driven listeners to online services will identify with their specialty channels .
Former DJ Tom Versen , Sirius 's director of production and creative services , said traditional radio only plays one-third of the music released each year .
He said ad-supported radio has stagnated towards repeating old standards instead of taking chances on new content .
" If I hear ' Dust in the Wind ' one more time , I 'm going to run my car off the road , " Versen said .




AIDS Slashing Life Expectancy

DURBAN , South Africa -- The AIDS pandemic is worse than anyone ever thought and will cause populations in the hardest-hit countries to actually shrink , the U.S. government said on Monday .
The U.S. Census Bureau and U.S. Agency for International Development kicked off an international AIDS conference with some of the starkest figures to come out yet , showing life expectancy falling to below 30 years in some places .
The AIDS epidemic is spreading faster than even the most pessimistic projections had predicted , the agencies told a news conference at the 13th International AIDS Conference .
" We underestimated the scope of it , how it has moved from urban to rural areas , " Dr. Paul DeLay of USAID said .
" And most importantly we underestimated the severity , " he added . "
No one would have believed ... that we would see countries with a prevalence of over 30 percent . "
The conference , held every two years , is in Africa for the first time .
Organizers had hoped to bring attention to the severity of the problem , especially in southern Africa , which is hardest-hit by the epidemic .
Of the more than 34 million people infected by the AIDS virus , 24.5 million live in sub-Saharan Africa .
AIDS is the No. 1 cause of death in Africa and the fourth globally , USAID said .
USAID said that over 8.6 percent of all adults in sub-Saharan Africa are HIV-positive , compared with 0.6 percent of Americans .
Seven countries now have an estimated HIV rate of 20 percent or greater : Botswana , Lesotho , Namibia , South Africa , Swaziland , Zambia and Zimbabwe .
Karen Stanecki of the U.S. Census Bureau said this had had a staggering effect on populations , especially because AIDS kills infants and young adults .
" By the year 2003 , we estimate Botswana , South Africa , and Zimbabwe will be experiencing negative population growth , " Stanecki said .
The Census projected the population would be shrinking at a rate of 0.1 to 0.3 percent . "
Without AIDS , these countries would have been experiencing a growth rate of 2 percent or greater , " Stanecki added .
Experts had already said that AIDS was reversing all the gains in life expectancy made by African countries , but the USAID-Census report showed figures were getting even more grim .




All You Need Is a Parade

BERLIN -- They call it the Love Parade , and they 're not kidding .
The city that hosts this annual love-in was wild back in Marlene Dietrich 's heyday .
Berlin gave us the cabaret world of Sally Bowles and was a haven for freaks , free-thinkers , radicals , and misfits during the years of the Berlin Wall .
But none of those blips on the screen can match the annual Love Parade in sheer , sweeping scale .
As it grows in size and profile -- this year 's event drawing more than a million people and spawning a copycat Love Parade in Leeds , England -- the event , now in its 12th year , is reaching new heights in mass reveling .
People come from all over the world for an unhinged , exuberant celebration of sexual vibes that makes precursor events during the San Francisco hippie days seem piddling in comparison .
The constant throb of techno and the groovy slow dancing of a good ecstasy high are constants , and so is a once-a-year openness and ease in all things sexual .
" You can feel the love , " Belgrade-born Berliner Bojana Djordjevic said without irony on Saturday afternoon , smiling for emphasis .
Djordjevic looked like an aerobics instructor in her body sheath .
She could n't walk 10 feet through the swarm of bodies in Berlin 's Tiergarten without having a man stop her .
They were all working variations on the oldest question known to man , and Djordjevic smiled and flirted back before breezing onto the next encounter .
Over near a stand selling cocktails , she even kissed one friendly admirer .
" I love it , you can feel comfortable , " said Djordjevic 's friend and fellow Berliner , Monika Uchman . "
It 's a day when you can kiss someone , you can squeeze them close , you can do whatever you want . "
More than 70 specially chartered trains brought people from around Germany and other nearby countries to the mobbed center of Berlin for the event .
Techno music throbbed from 50 so-called floats , not so much floats but moving platforms for a chosen few to show off their costumes or lack thereof .
Michael Rosch , a 27-year-old who works for Microsoft in Munich , drove to Berlin for the weekend since he had tickets to be on a float operated by two clubs , one from Berlin and one on the party island of Ibiza .
" My girlfriend Christiane and I had a great time .
It was very loud and we were just dancing all the time for 5-6 hours .
You see a million dancing people , young people , old people , all kind of people and all parts of society , and they come from all over the world .
I think the atmosphere is unique .
You can n't find any trouble or any fights .
The whole parade is very peaceful and all the people are happy together and just having a very big party . "
This was notably true , even with isolated exceptions .
One young woman died of an apparent ecstasy overdose , and a stabbing was reported .
But total arrests numbered less than 200 , mostly for drug offenses or petty theft , an unimaginably small number when one considers that over one million people attended the event .
The history of the Love Parade goes back to 1989 , when 150 friends made a float and gathered for the birthday of Matthias Roeingh , who is now considered the founder of the annual event .
Now the parade is a showcase for corporate sponsorships , gets credit for boosting the local economy by more than $ 100 million , and is an event likely to keep getting bigger and better known .
The scene is youth-dominated , but one middle-aged , pear-shaped man was walking around with a sign on his safari hat reading " Looking for a Girlfriend . "
Everyone seemed cool with that .
Cloddish displays of interest are rare .
It is , in fact , the world 's largest meat-market , fanning out from the world 's largest Mosh Pit , shown all day on live TV .
But with so many people , and so many possibilities , there 's no need to get pushy .
Some of the bare-chested young men just spray-painted their email addresses in electric green on their backs to make the collecting of digits that much easier .
That this happens in Germany of all places is both fascinating and oddly appropriate .
Other than Oktoberfest , Germans are not world-renowned partiers -- or have n't been up until now .
" The German people have some problems showing feelings , but on this day all the people show their feelings , " Uchman said .
Event organizers have copyrighted the Love Parade name .
Do n't be surprised if it keeps spreading and spreading , maybe to a city near you .




Get Ready for Windows Itanium

Bill Gates will announce on Wednesday a preview release of Windows that will run on Intel 's new Itanium chip , Microsoft and Intel said .
The Itanium chip is important , because it is Intel 's first foray into 64-bit chips , which handle data in 64-bit increments .
The company 's Celeron , Pentium III and Xeon chips are 32-bit microprocessors .
The Itanium chip , previously code-named Merced , was delayed once .
While Intel originally slated the chip for release in the first half of 2000 , the company announced in 1998 that the Itanium would be delayed until the second half of 2000 .
It is now slated for volume production in the third quarter .
Intel and Hewlett-Packard , the world 's No. 2 computer maker , have jointly developed the heavy-duty microprocessor , which will be used in the most powerful and advanced computer servers and workstations .
It will compete against chips and computers made by Sun Microsystems , IBM and others , including H-P .
- - -
Net-phone mania 2005 ? : The number of people using their mobile phones to access the Internet will exceed 500 million worldwide by 2005 , outstripping those using personal computers to go on line , Andersen Consulting said on Wednesday .
Improved voice-recognition technology , more secure payment systems and better wireless services will help fuel the demand for online operations from mobile phones , according to Frank O'Dea , analyst with Andersen Consulting in Dublin .
" We are seeing a massive explosion in the number of people on line using PCs and a huge increase in the use of mobile phones .
What this does is bring them together and combine those huge rises , " O'Dea said in a news conference .
- - -
Chips , chips , chips : Chipmaker PMC-Sierra on Wednesday said it would buy Quantum Effect Devices , a maker of microprocessors used in consumer electronics , in a stock deal worth about $ 2.3 billion .
The deal gives Burnaby , British Columbia-based PMC-Sierra a strong presence in the design of high-speed networks .
- - -
Drug money : Pharmacy benefit manager Advance Paradigm said Wednesday it would acquire Rite Aid 's PCS Health Systems unit for $ 1 billion .
Under the terms of the deal , Advance Paradigm will pay Rite Aid $ 675 million in cash and $ 200 million in senior subordinated notes for the PCS Health Systems unit , which serves as a middleman between health insurers and pharmacists .
Advance Paradigm will also issue Rite Aid $ 125 million in new shares .
The deal is slated to close in the quarter ending September 30 .
- - -
EBay buys the other Half : EBay said Tuesday it completed its previously announced purchase of Half.com , another Internet trading location where consumers sell used books , CDs and movies .
EBay said it issued about 5.1 million shares of its shares in the transaction for the Conshohocken , Pennsylvania-based Half.com .
Based on eBay 's closing stock price Tuesday of 43-15/16 , the deal was worth around $ 224 million , down from a range of $ 312 million to $ 364 million on June 13 when the deal was first announced .
- - -
Layoffs at Boston Scientific : Medical-device maker Boston Scientific said Wednesday it will cut 1,000 US jobs -- or more than 7 percent of its global work force -- and take a $ 70 million charge in the second quarter as part of a major reorganization .
The Natick , Massachusetts-based firm will close its manufacturing facilities in Plymouth , Minnesota , Redmond , Washington , and Watertown , Massachusetts .
Boston Scientific will transfer production to Miami as well as to facilities in Cork and Galway , Ireland .
It expects to gain additional workers in Ireland and Miami .
The company , which employs 13,000 people , said the reorganization plan is estimated to achieve operating savings of $ 70 million after-tax in 2001 and $ 145 million 2002 .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Agent Orange Still Hot in Vietnam

HANOI -- Villagers living close to a former U.S. air base where there was a big spillage of the defoliant Agent Orange during the Vietnam War show elevated levels of dioxin contamination , a leading researcher says .
Arnold Schecter , a professor of environmental sciences at the University of Texas , said his findings , as well as previous Canadian research , showed dioxin had found its way back into the food chain in at least two Agent Orange " hotspots " in Vietnam .
Schecter said he and Vietnamese scientists took blood samples last year from 20 villagers living close to the former air base of Bien Hoa , scene of an accidental spill of thousands of gallons of Agent Orange in the late 1960s .
Analysis of the samples obtained this year showed 19 of the 20 had elevated levels of dioxin .
" Nineteen out of 20 really surprised us , " Schecter said in an interview in Hanoi . "
One woman had the highest level seen in Vietnam since the last samples were taken during the war .
" That 's a 135 percent increase above the level for non-exposed Hanoi residents .
It startled us .
It startled my group .
It 's striking . "
The Environmental Protection Agency recently issued a reassessment of dioxin , concluding that it is a known carcinogen that causes cancer in humans .
However , there was the possibility of the EPA findings being contested by industry , including Agent Orange manufacturers worried about potentially large damages settlements .
Litigation by industry meant similar conclusions by the Public Health Service 's National Toxicology Program were not released , Schecter said .
Spraying of Agent Orange , used by the United States to deny jungle cover to the North Vietnamese , ended in 1971 .
Schecter said if researchers were better funded they could map out other hotspots like Bien Hoa .
" I hope and expect from what I hear in Washington they will try to get U.S. government funding for Agent Orange research in Vietnam started this year , " he said . "
This ... is the last year of the Clinton administration and we have no idea what the next administration will want to do .
It must be done now , or it may never be done . "
During a visit to Vietnam earlier this year , Defense Secretary William Cohen called for cooperation in research into the harmful effects of Agent Orange .
Schecter , a member of the U.S. Army Medical Corps in the Vietnam War who has been researching Agent Orange in Vietnam since 1984 , said implications of such research extended beyond Vietnam and U.S. veterans seeking compensation for the effects of contamination , to cases like the recent Belgian food scare .
" It will tell us how dioxin moves through the environment , " he said . "
Most people thought the dioxin from Agent Orange had just moved away , been washed away .
Clearly , 30 years after the spraying ended , it 's not doing that and it is being remobilized in certain hotspots and getting into people . "
It could also show what levels of dioxins caused which health effects , Schecter said .
" Vietnam has the biggest dioxin contamination in the world and probably the most men women and children contaminated with dioxin .
Unfortunately for Vietnam , it is probably the best laboratory in the world to study the effects of dioxin . "
Schecter said that of those villagers contaminated near Bien Hoa , some were old enough to have been exposed to spraying during the war but others were born long after the spraying ended .
The highest levels of contamination were among heavy fish consumers , specifically in a family that ate a lot of fish from a stream on their property downstream from the air base .
" The spillage of Agent Orange at Bien Hoa air base probably got into a waterway that goes nearby , probably contaminated silt that probably contaminated fish , " Schecter said .
" We know now that Agent Orange is a human carcinogen , we know it causes endocrine disruption and we know it causes certain types of damage to children if the mother has high enough exposure , " Schecter said .




Report Says E-Voting Is Unsafe

Voting in your pajamas is unsafe .
So says the latest study published by the Voting Integrity Project , a non-partisan group based in Arlington , Virginia that has openly attacked the Arizona Democratic Party 's Internet primary election in March .
" ...
It is quite conceivable that a foreign-owned company , with political motivations , supported by a hostile government , could be in a position to administer binding public elections , " the report reads .
The report , written by VIP chairwoman Deborah Phillips and California Secretary of State 's Internet Voting Advisory Committee Chairman David Jefferson , makes a distinction between on-site and remote Internet voting .
In a poll-side Internet election , county , or state officials would monitor the entire process , and voters would cast votes on secure computers .
Remote voting means that people will be able to cast votes on any computer with an Internet connection .
And while the report offers a tentative endorsement of non-binding poll-side Internet voting , it unequivocally rejects remote Internet voting , calling it fundamentally unsafe .
The concerns about voting from an insecure computer range from the obvious denial-of-service attack fears to more elaborate worries of hostile foreign governments surreptitiously hijacking the election .
So far , no one has accused Election.com , the vendor that ran the Arizona election , of being in cahoots with a rogue state .
But critics have decried the company 's closed-mouth security policies , and say that fair elections need to be independently evaluated , something Election.com has never agreed to .
Election.com officials counter that the election had no security lapses , and was therefore a success that needs no further scrutiny .
" We went through a very arduous process in the Arizona election , " Election.com President Mel Schrieberg said . "
The proof of that matter is that we conducted the election and there were no security problems . "
But that kind of response fails to satisfy the litany of what-if type scenarios outlined by VIP 's report .
" We are not willing to let these very serious security issues go unchallenged , " said Phillips , who insists she is not against Internet voting . "
We can n't give a free ride to vendors just because of the potential benefits . "
of e-voting




Call It E-Philanthropy

Some Seattle-based techies are dreaming up an ambitious initiative to fight global poverty .
And they plan to use the Internet to do it .
Digital Partners says it wants to change the definition of philanthropy .
The group will not give food , clothing , or shelter to the poor .
It will offer them online content instead .
" We 're looking to put together creative applications of the Internet that will provide immediate benefits for the poorest of the poor , " president Craig Smith said . "
This is not trickle-down economics . "
Funded by the Kellogg , Ford , and Rockefeller foundations , Digital Partners was formed last year to cultivate talent and other resources designed to narrow the global digital divide .
Last month , at a meeting in Redmond hosted by Microsoft , it launched a five-year global plan , which will begin with the India Initiative .
The organization has created a working group of 65 India-born technology entrepreneurs , who will brainstorm to come up with a series of Internet-focused proposals .
The idea is to use the wealth and expertise of the extensive network of Indian engineers and entrepreneurs to help the nearly 330 million Indians who live in abject poverty .
One of the main reasons Digital Partners picked India as its first target country is the presence of a large Indian community in the United States .
It 's a community that is closely knit , highly skilled , and financially sound .
" Forty percent of all new startups are run by Indians .
Together they account for nearly $ 235 billion in market capitalization , " Smith said .
And more than half of all H-1B visas go to Indian engineers .
Better yet , the current crop of immigrants also has strong business and social connections to their country of birth .
" Most of these people live in two worlds .
Many of them have a branch office in India , " executive director Akhtar Badshah said . "
This is a way for them to develop local talent for their own businesses and markets . "
And unlike the traditional India elite , these newly minted multi-millionaires are eager to do more than just write a check to their favorite charity .
They want to use their IT skills to develop a brand new approach to development and economic growth , he said .
The main philosophy underlying the India Initiative is the idea that the poor are profitable .
Badshah argues companies have been slow to recognize the value of creating products aimed at the bottom of the economic pyramid .




Just Like Old Times in Berkeley

BERKELEY -- It looked like a nostalgic scene from the past , but a gathering of free speech advocates and a songwriter for the Grateful Dead , along with some conventional suits , were looking toward the future .
Specifically , the Internet 's impact on the First Amendment .
Thursday night , the Electronic Frontier Foundation sponsored a rally at UC-Berkeley 's Boalt Hall School of Law to garner support in defense of a landmark court case involving the DVD-descrambling utility called DeCSS .
" We will either have a world where people will speak freely through songs and films or we will have a world where very few industry powers will own it and control it , " Grateful Dead lyricist and EFF co-founder John Perry Barlow told the standing-room only crowd .
The rally came on the eve of the trial that begins Monday in New York .
The trial pits the Motion Picture Association of America against the hacker newsletter 2600 , which has supported DeCSS by making it available for download .
The MPAA is suing 2600 under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act , which prohibits the distribution of any technology that bypasses copy protection schemes .
The defendants are 2600 and its publisher , Eric Corley , aka Emmanuel Goldstein .
They are being defended by Martin Garbus .
The plaintiffs in the case are eight major film studios , including Universal , Paramount , and Disney .
They are suing to stop the publication of and linking to DeCSS software , which breaks the encrypted code on DVDs .
So far , the movie studios have had the upper hand after winning a preliminary injunction in January that forced Corley and 2600 to remove DeCSS from its website .
" After I read the initial ruling I was depressed -- it was as if the judge did n't hear anything , " cyberlaw and intellectual property professor Pamela Samuelson said .
" We have a big education job ahead of us to make everyone realize the implications of this case , so I think it 's very profound . "
Samuelson said she was " optimistic " about the defendants ' chances in the case , despite U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan 's January ruling , and believes that the real battle will be fought in the court of appeals .
" I do n't hope for a lot from the trial judge , " she said . "
I think the Second Circuit will take a closer look at ... the speech issue . "
Samuelson discussed the ambiguous nature of the controversial DMCA , which is at the heart of the plaintiffs ' suit , and emphasized the free speech aspect of the case .
While Samuelson addressed the legal implications , Barlow focused on the bigger picture , expressing fears that the recent DVD and MP3 lawsuits will result in a threat to artistic creativity and a " crippling " of the new information economy .
Sporting an all-black outfit , the former scrivener for the Dead was the crowd favorite .
Barlow mingled one-liners with serious comments about free speech .
" The expression of the idea is something that we can all take credit for and we can n't let people lay claim to it .
You can not own free speech . "
Barlow poked fun at Congress , in addition to chastising Al Gore as the so-called " father of the Internet . "
" But I guess the Internet is based on Al-Gore-rithms , " Barlow quipped to a combination of groans and laughter from the audience .
Barlow called for " fundamental change " in the current legislation that deals with cyberspace .
" There is an effort underway to see that the stuff they own is not digitized .
If it 's not digitized , it will be lost .
We have an enormous responsibility to see that these works are not lost . "
" If creation is going to expand , we have to understand we have to fertilize creativity ; that means fair use . "
artistic
that
But Barlow thinks that legal complexities and fine print , in addition to the roguish nature of the defendants , Corley and 2600 , will prove to be difficult in the trial .
" One of the problems that we have is dealing with a gray zone , " he said , referring to the lack of precedents and the legislation that is still in its infancy .
Barlow agreed with Samuelson that the real battle will most likely be fought in the court of appeals .
" It will be much easier to win this case on appeals , that 's where it really counts , " he said .




NASA Hacker Busted in N.Y.

NEW YORK -- A 20-year-old man was arrested Wednesday for allegedly hacking into two computers owned by NASA 's Jet Propulsion Laboratory and using one to host Internet chat rooms devoted to hacking .
Raymond Torricelli of New Rochelle , New York , was named in a five-count complaint that also charges him with sending unsolicited advertisements for a pornographic website and intercepting passwords and user names of computers owned by Georgia Southern University and San Jose State University .
Torricelli is also accused of stealing credit card numbers that were used to make more than $ 10,000 in unauthorized purchases .
Court papers , which were unsealed in Manhattan Federal Court , claim that Torricelli was the head of a hacker group known as " #conflict " and that he used the name " rolex . "
According to the complaint , Torricelli used his home computer in 1998 to illegally access two NASA computers at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena , California .
Court papers also claim that NASA spent several thousand dollars to repair damage from his intrusions .
One of the hacked computers is used by NASA to perform satellite design and mission analysis for future space missions .
The other computer is used as an email and internal Web server by the laboratory 's communications ground system section .
Torricelli allegedly installed a program on the satellite-design computer that enabled him , under his alias " rolex , " to hold chat-rooom discussions with other members of " #conflict . "
The complaint also claims that data recovered from Torricelli 's personal computer shows he engaged in chat-room discussions about hacking into computers , stealing credit card numbers , using such numbers to make unauthorized purchases , and using computers to electronically alter the results of the annual MTV Movie Awards .
Torricelli allegedly installed a " sniffer " program on NASA 's communication computer that allowed him to intercept user names and passwords as they crossed the networks of computers owned by San Jose State University and by Georgia Southern University .
The complaint also claims that more than 76,000 discrete passwords were found on the defendant 's personal computer , many of them allegedly decrypted by Torricelli with a program known as " John-the-Ripper . "
Torricelli allegedly used his computer to gain unauthorized access to more than 800 computers .
The defendant also allegedly earned more than $ 5,200 from an unidentified entity by using the NASA computers to send out unsolicited ads for a pornographic Web site .
Investigators also claim to have found more than 100 stolen credit card numbers on Torricelli 's computer and that American Express , Visa , MasterCard and Discover reported that the real cardholders had reported more than $ 10,000 in fraudulent charges .




Talking Books Speak Volumes

When George Kerscher began to lose his sight in his late twenties , the former teacher realized that he might never be able to read the same way again .
Since he could no longer delve through the written page Kerscher , who has the degenerative disease retinitis pigmentosa , began listening to audio books .
But while these cassettes helped him read , they were limited .
He could n't turn pages or search for text .
He had to endure hours of recordings to find the information he needed .
" Synthetic speech with text provided an accessibility that was always important , but it was always synthetic , " Kerscher said .
But Kerscher soon discovered a new technology that could revolutionize the way people with print disabilities read : digital talking books .
" I recognized the increasing enjoyment that listening and reading a book at the same time offered to anybody , " said Kerscher , an executive at the Recording for the Blind & Dyslexic . "
RFB&D
I realized that a whole lot of people are going to like this .
...
Kids who would n't normally like to read would enjoy reading with this enhancement . "
Kerscher now leads the DAISY Consortium , an international group of nearly 40 libraries and nonprofit organizations dedicated to establishing a global accessibility standard for the next generation of digital talking books .
With DAISY , individuals who are blind or print-disabled no longer have to listen to synthetic speech .
Digital Audio-based Information System
Instead , they can hear a digitally recorded audio narrated by a human voice .
" We have this shared goal of enabling the fundamental right to read , " said Peter Osborne , senior manager of the Royal National Institute for the Blind and a DAISY Consortium member . "
We want to ensure that we try and share opportunities for access for information so that no sector of society is excluded . "
The DAISY Consortium builds upon converging standards from the World Wide Web Consortium , Open Ebook , and The National Information Standards Organization .
" We took a look at the standards that were emerging to decide how to use them most effectively for the blind and print-disabled . "
Kerscher said . "
All are pointing toward the same kinds of technologies and moving toward a new way of doing things . "
" One of the byproducts of digitization is that it 's made it more difficult for people with disabilities , " Richard Scribner , president and CEO of the RFB&D , said . "
But a global standard will help to erase a big part of that difference . "
In a major sign of support for digital talking book standards , Microsoft recently announced its plan to provide financial and technical support for the Consortium 's work .
The company will donate 25 percent of its revenues from the sale of AudioPublisher for the Microsoft Reader .
The AudioPublisher tool can add information within e-books , enabling synchronized audio narration .
The move could boost the organization 's efforts to get commercial publishers to adopt digital audio features in mainstream products .
" It 's an enormously important first step , " Scribner said . "
It charts the course for other publishers and other software providers to follow . "
" I believe that it will be the first major impetus to move other organizations in this direction . "
Kerscher agreed . "
They recognized the importance of audio and text content married in the e-book reader . "




Ballmer Bombs on Keynote

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
TORONTO -- Every convention needs a keynote address , which sometimes -- even often -- is unfortunate .
Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer 's speech Wednesday at Comdex Canada was best left undone .
It featured bad analogies , software crashes , awkward moments , and bad vibes .
Not to mention some nervous laughter , especially afterward .
Speaking to an audience that he said was the " most sophisticated in the world , " Ballmer compared the upcoming changes in Internet technology to a hockey stick .
Perhaps sensing that he 'd confused the audience -- many of whom anxiously quizzed each other on what the analogy referred to -- Ballmer sped ahead and went on to demo " the glue that holds the Internet together . "
That would be software , Regis .
He promised that applications would soon evolve to the point where they would virtually have a mind of their own &ndash; - updating , fixing , and creating itself according to each user 's needs .
Then , noting that the next generation of Internet-centric software would require absolute excellence and a simplified user interface , Ballmer invited Dave Carter , manager of Microsoft 's Internet strategy in Canada , to preview Windows 2000 .
Carter showed the " really cool " features of this " really cool " OS on a " really , really cool Compaq device . "
Attempting to use the " really cool , really sexy IR support , " Carter snapped a digital image of Ballmer and tried to transfer it via infrared beam .
As the transfer lagged -- bogged down somewhere in the ether -- Carter announced that all was not lost and he 'd be selling that photo on eBay later .
Next up was a preview of the " Next Generation User Experience " to be offered by MSN .




Spuds That Stop Disease

WASHINGTON , DC -- For the first time , humans have been able to develop immunity to a virus just by eating a potato .
This latest demonstration of edible vaccines has proponents cheering the potential for inexpensive protection of the worlds poorest populations .
But critics charge that engineering plants to carry human vaccines could produce dangerous environmental and human health side effects .
Last week , scientists from the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research at Cornell University and the University of Maryland School of Medicine at Baltimore reported that human immunity to the Norwalk virus -- the leading cause of food-borne illness in the United States and much of the developed world -- had been successfully triggered by a vaccine carried in a genetically engineered potato .
BTI
" We are excited about this novel approach to developing vaccines because of its potential to protect individuals around the world , especially in regions where injected vaccines are less practical , " says Dr. Carol Tacket , professor of medicine at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and the lead investigator . "
An edible vaccine could be easy to produce , safe , affordable , and effective . "
The research is reported in the July issue of the Journal of Infectious Diseases . "
" This plant-based vaccine could be the first one readily accepted in the developed world .
It 's very exciting , " said Dr. Charles Arntzen , president and chief executive of BTI . "
It 's likely that in the United States , this Norwalk virus vaccine could easily be the first licensed product based on our plant biology research . "
Arntzen and his colleagues had previous success in triggering an immune response in humans to the bacterium Escherichia coli through a transgenic potato vaccine .
E. coli
The result were published in Nature Medicine in 1998 .
That study , while not providing complete immunity to its human subjects , demonstrated that the concept of a food-based vaccine could work .
" Edible vaccines offer exciting possibilities for significantly reducing the burden of diseases like hepatitis and diarrhea , particularly in the developing world where storing and administering vaccines are often major problems , " said Dr. Anthony Fauci , director of National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases .
NIAID
NIAID helped to fund both potato vaccine studies .
Another BTI study , funded by the British biotechnology company Axis Genetics began human trials last year of a potato genetically engineered to carry a vaccine for hepatitis B , a virus that kills more than one million people each year and is a leading cause of liver cancer .
" A current vaccine is available to prevent hepatitis B , " said Dr. Arntzen . "
It is very effective .
However , cost and the inconvenience of needles have limited its acceptance in many countries .
Alternatives to injectable vaccines are needed if we are to seriously consider global eradication of this disease .
An oral vaccine would also increase its acceptance in this country . "
But opponents of edible vaccines , or biopharmaceuticals , charge that engineering plants to carry vaccines is bad medicine .
" We certainly think it 's a very bad idea , " said Ronnie Cummins , national director of the Organic Consumers Union . "
You dont want biotech vaccines out in the environment where exposure can not be predicted . "
Cummins argues that doctors would be unable to control how much of an edible vaccine a person ate .
People could take too much of the vaccine , which could be toxic , or too little -- which could lead to disease outbreaks among populations believed to be immune , Cummins argues .
He also worries that the engineered genes in biopharmaceuticals could be transferred to other plants , causing unknown environmental problems .
Insects could eat the plants , or the vaccine products could leak into the soil , with unknown consequences .
" Theres no way to guard against people overdosing on these things , and theres no way to keep these genes from spreading in the environment , " Cummins told ENS . "
These gene-spliced vaccines are going to make their way into plants , or wild relatives of these plants . "
non-genetically engineered
Potatoes are not the only plants being studied for their potential to carry human vaccines -- and vaccines are not the only medical product being engineered into plants .
In some experimental plots in the United States , companies are growing new strains of tobacco , corn , and rice , engineered to produce clot-busting drugs or human blood products like albumin and hemoglobin .
Scientists from Georgetown University and the North Carolina State Universitys College of Agriculture and Life Sciences are working to insert genes for a vaccine against human papilloma virus into tobacco plants .
Human papilloma virus causes the growth of cervical lesions in women .
Left untreated , the lesions often develop into cervical cancer .
" Its no problem to get the gene into the plant and to express the gene and to extract protein on a modest scale , " said Dr. Arthur Weissinger , one of the North Carolina researchers . "
But can we extract enough protein to make it economically inviting ? "
No , says Cummins of the Organic Consumers Union .
He believes the pharmaceutical industry will not make a serious investment in a venture that could be defeated by public opposition to so called " Frankenpharming . "
" Were not convinced that this whole notion of splicing vaccines into plants is part of a real commercial effort , " Cummins said . "
We think it 's part of a public relations campaign to convince the public that there are benefits to genetic engineering . "
" This is hype , " Cummins concludes . "
And if its not hype , its a dangerous notion that should be put to rest before it gets out of the lab . "
In fact , some bioengineering companies have already been hard hit by public protests .
Axis Genetics , the company that supported the development of hepatitis B vaccine carrying potatoes , went out of business earlier this year , after investors abandoned the controversial concept of edible vaccines and other engineered crops .
But the promise of biopharmaceuticals may outweigh the risks .
A research team led by William Langridge of the Loma Linda University in California has used transgenic potatoes to immunize mice against cholera , a leading cause of death among children in developing countries .
Vaccines to control or prevent common diseases like cholera and the Norwalk virus that cause diarrhea could save the lives of three to five million children , the United Nations has estimated .
Plant based vaccines that do not require refrigeration or needles could be easily transported to developing countries , or even grown in those countries .
The costs of these vaccines could be far less than that of traditional laboratory production of vaccines .
Researchers have even succeeded in placing fragments of the surface proteins of human immunodeficiency virus into plants .
HIV
These engineered plants could help humans develop an immune response to HIV that could prevent the development of AIDS -- the number one cause of death in some African countries .
Still , " scientists who are not beholden to the biotech industry would agree , " that edible vaccines are too dangerous to pursue , said Cummins . "
The whole idea is crazy . "
Copyright Environment News Service 2000
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS




FDA OKs Robo-Surgery

The FDA has approved a robotic device that mimics surgeons ' hand movements to perform operations such as open-heart surgery .
Although the da Vinci system is the only one of its kind approved by the FDA , the company already faces patent infringement accusations from rival medical robotics company Computer Motion .
The da Vinci system , designed by Intuitive Surgical , combines robotics and computer imaging .
It allows doctors to perform heart surgery by controlling miniature hands inside the chest cavity through one-centimeter incisions .
Surgeons control the robotic appendages with joysticks and watch their progress via a 3-D computer image .
The $ 1 million system uses two pencil-sized arms that enter the chest , which doctors say allows them to immerse themselves in the topography of the heart .
The da Vinci system is FDA approved for all laparoscopic procedures .
" It gives you seven degrees of freedom at the wrist , just like the human wrist , and it 's got wonderful ergonomics , " said Randolph Chitwood , chairman of the department of surgery at the East Carolina University School of Medicine in Greenville , North Carolina .
of movement
The da Vinci system has already been put into action .
The Henrico Doctors ' Hospital in Richmond , Virginia , on Wednesday became the first US hospital to perform general surgery using the surgical system .
" Complex operations that are now done through large incisions , and some operations that we can n't even envision today , will become routine through tiny incisions with this system in the years ahead , " said Dr. William E. Kelley Jr. , the operating surgeon , in a statement .
The FDA said the robotic arms give surgeons better control of surgical tools .
Researchers tested the system on 113 patients and compared their success to 132 patients who had standard surgery .
The tests showed the robotic system produced similar safety and effectiveness , the FDA said .
Surgery with the robotic system took 40 to 50 minutes longer , but the FDA attributed that in part to surgeons ' lack of experience with the new technology .
Surgeons have used the da Vinci system to perform over 600 operations in other countries , mostly in Europe .
Intuitive 's da Vinci system is similar to the Intelligent Operating Room , under development by Computer Motion .
Computer Motion holds patents on eight robotic surgical systems , and claims Intuitive has infringed on all of them in the da Vinci as well as in other products .
The company recently filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the US District Court for the Central District of California in Los Angeles .
Computer Motion 's technology can be used only under an Investigational Device Exemption from the FDA for experimental procedures .
The company expects to begin patient enrollment for clinical trials during the third quarter .
Still , patent attorneys believe that Intuitive may be forced either to pay a licensing fee to Computer Motion or to redesign the da Vinci system .
" This may be painful and it may cost a lot of money , but it all typically works out in the end with a settlement , " said John Lynch , a patent attorney with the Howrey , Simon , Arnold , and White in Menlo Park , California .
The FDA said it will review Computer Motion 's Zeus Robotic Surgical System using a shorter 90-day approval process instead of the normal 180-day process .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Wireless Phone Force Mobilizing

The number of GSM mobile phone users is soaring and is expected to rise to 356 million by the end of the year and to 462 million by the end of 2001 , recent statistics published by the GSM Association showed .
GSM stands for Global System for Mobile Communications , which is the world 's leading mobile phone standard , especially in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region .
The number of GSM standard subscribers worldwide rose 22 percent in the first half of this year , to 331.5 million by the end of June , the GSM Association said on its website , referring to data compiled by industry research group EMC .
By the end of 2004 , there would be 733 million GSM subscribers globally , the EMC data showed .
Most current GSM users , or 215 million , are in Europe , with another 90 million GSM subscribers in the Asia-Pacific area .
The number of subscribers to Code Division Multiple Access mobile phone services , the dominant mobile standard in North America , rose to 67 million at the end of June from 61.8 million in April .
CDMA
Of the 366 operational GSM networks in 135 countries in June , 38 percent were in Europe .
Another 59 networks are due to come on air , EMC data showed .
The GSM Association is a global body that develops and promotes the GSM standard .
It represents over 400 GSM , satellite , and third-generation operators , regulator and administrative bodies , and key manufacturers and suppliers to the industry .




Tapping Into Porn

WASHINGTON -- A Congressional panel appears ready to grant police greater wiretapping authority in cases involving computer-generated or real child pornography .
The House Judiciary Crime Subcommittee held a hearing Thursday on a bill , H.R.3484 , which expands the investigative power of federal , state , and local authorities .
Current U.S. law lists dozens of crimes , including drug offenses , murder , kidnapping , gambling , and bribery , where wiretaps are permissible .
The Child Sex Crimes Wiretapping Act would add another offense " relating to material constituting or containing child pornography " to the list .
A Customs Department official testified Thursday that the measure would " enhance law enforcement 's ability to investigate and prosecute individuals " who distribute such illicit material .
The bill also allows wiretaps in cases of prostitution involving minors .
In 1996 , Congress expanded child pornography laws to make it a crime to possess suggestive images that " appear " to be of anyone under 18 years old .
But at least one federal court has ruled the law is an unconstitutional abridgement on freedom of speech .
Child pornography laws did not exist until about two decades ago .
The Supreme Court first ruled in 1982 that the government could ban sexual images with serious literary or artistic value in the interest of preventing " the harmful employment of children to make sexually explicit materials for distribution . "




ACLU : Law Needs ' Carnivore ' Fix

The American Civil Liberties Union , on Tuesday , urged Congress to amend outdated electronic privacy laws following news of an FBI system capable of large-scale email interception and analysis .
" There 's no clear law that authorizes Carnivore , " said ACLU associate director Barry Steinhardt . "
But the FBI and the Justice Department ... will argue that there 's no clear law that prohibits it .
And Congress needs to put some real limits on what law enforcement can do . "
Steinhardt and other ACLU members sent a letter Tuesday evening to Representative Charles T. Canady , chair of the Constitution Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee .
R-Florida
The ACLU urged Canady 's committee to prohibit Carnivore-type systems -- or " dragnets , " as Steinhardt called them -- that give law enforcement officials access to large quantities of communications .
" It is a system for intercepting huge volumes of email and it 's a system that was never contemplated by Congress when it passed the Electronic Communications Privacy Act " of 1986 , Steinhardt said .
The Wall Street Journal reported details of Carnivore on Tuesday .
The FBI surveillance system , which the agency showed to members of the ISP industry two weeks ago , works like a kind of Internet wiretap that tracks emails and other electronic communications .
Agents use it only after obtaining a court order that allows them to intercept the communications of a criminal suspect .
The FBI would install the specialized computer on the networks of Internet providers , where it " sniffs " out all mail and records sent to or from the target of an investigation .
A spokeswoman at Canady 's Washington office said the congressman could not respond until he had reviewed the ACLU letter .
The 14-year-old Electronic Communications Privacy Act allows for real-time interception of messages if there is a court order , similar to those used for tapping a suspect 's telephone line .
Federal law also allows law enforcement officials to obtain court orders for a " tap and trace . "
This provision allows the FBI and other law enforcement agencies to obtain a list of telephone numbers used by a suspect .
It is the transposition of these laws to the modern Net age that the ACLU says leaves agencies like the FBI with too much leeway in its use of 21st century digital technologies .
For example a tap-and-trace order might let the FBI demand , from a website , the IP addresses of all Web users who accessed a particular page , Steinhardt said . "
Are they required to turn that over ?
That 's far more than who dialed what phone numbers . "
Steinhardt said email searches must be more clearly restricted .
" We can n't be in the position of making a leap of faith that law enforcement will have access to all this information but only look at this very narrow band of communications that they 're entitled to , " he said .
But an FBI spokesman said the notion that it would look at more emails than the agency is entitled to under the law is a misunderstanding of the system 's purpose and operation .




IBM Unveils ' Server Challenge '

IBM is taking direct aim at Sun Microsystems and Hewlett-Packard , the two leaders in the $ 6.6 billion Unix server market , with a cheeky new ad strategy that could make the server wars look a lot like the fabled cola wars .
" We 're aggressively rolling up our sleeves , " said Lauren Flaherty , VP of server communications at IBM . "
Our goal is to really be out there in a directly competitive way . "
The campaign , developed by Ogilvy & Mather 's Steve Hayden , will hit full stride Friday with interactive banner ads challenging Sun 's market dominance .
The ad will appear on several websites , including WSJ.com , Forbes.com and EarthWeb.com .
IBM has primed this campaign with a series of full-page print ads in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal , and even a handful of old-fashioned billboard ads .
One , on Silicon Valley 's Highway 101 , takes a swipe at HP 's homespun icon , the garage .
But IBM seems to have its main sights focused on Sun .
The banner ads make a play for Sun 's market with interactive components that allow users to make head-to-head comparisons with Sun servers .
" It 's easy to eclipse a Sun , " the banner ad brags .
Curious users who click on a Sun server model get a pop-up of a comparable IBM model , complete with specs .
If you want to really max out your credit card , the banner even has a " buy now " option which takes you right to their product website .
It 's no secret that competition is hot among the three server giants .
According to a recent report by research firm International Data , Sun dominates the market with a 32 percent overall share , compared to HP 's 26 percent and IBM 's 17 .
But IBM is gaining some ground with the success of its RS/6000 series and new copper chip technology .
And it was recently emboldened by knocking Sun out of its place this year as the server of choice for Network Solutions ' enormous Internet address registry .
IBM appears to mean business , adopting an attack mentality , right down to the military code names for the ad campaign bandied about in-house : " competitive ambush " or " competitive strike . "
IBM 's direct-hit strategy has worked for others in the past .
Remember the " Pepsi Challenge " and the Snapple ads touting " We 're No. 3 " ?
But can the same strategy inspire Web news surfers to drop tens of thousands of dollars on lunky , bland Unix servers ?
Will anyone out in mainstream consumerland even know what they are talking about ?
Flaherty believes the growing e-business market has made it possible for the ads to hit home with both geeks and non-geeks : " The traditional business-line executives who in the past were not our core audience are now increasingly involved in selecting their companies ' ITs , " Flaherty said .
For the typical surfer , she said , the ads amount to brand building , or what she called " a story line that says hot companies are picking IBM " to provide their servers , something most consumers can comprehend .




Why CNET Bought ZDNet

In the wake of a precipitous stock drop , the chief executive of CNET Networks explained why his company 's pricey plan to acquire Internet publisher ZDNet makes strategic sense .
" While we 're focused on the same category , we 've evolved with less overlap than one might think , " said Shelby Bonnie , CEO of CNET , in an investor conference call Wednesday morning . "
CNET
We have different bases of advertisers , customers , and revenue streams . "
The comments followed CNET 's early morning announcement that it planned to buy rival ZDNet and the stock of parent company Ziff Davis Inc. , in exchange for about 50 million of its own shares .
ZDZ
ZD
At current stock prices , the stock transaction has a value of about $ 1.4 billion .
Those terms represent a hefty premium for ZDNet shares , which rose an eye-popping 24 percent in Wednesday trading .
CNET stock , however , fell by close to 13 percent following the news , hovering around $ 28 a share Wednesday .
In comments posted on Internet message boards , investors grumbled that although the two companies fit well together , CNET was committing too much of its stock to pay for the accquisition .
Bonnie told investors that the combination of the two firms -- close rivals in online technology publishing -- would help the companies move faster to expand international operations and tap into new areas like wireless publishing .
He said the two companies have retained fairly unique audiences with only about 25 percent overlap .
ZDNet president and CEO Dan Rosensweig , who will serve as president of the combined company , cited his company 's fast-growing direct marketing and ad-serving operations as key assets CNET looked at in considering the acquisition .
In many ways , however , CNET and ZDNet run remarkably similar businesses .
Both have extensive websites focusing on technology news and information , both cite overseas expansion as a key strategy for the next few years , and both are headquartered in San Francisco .
Executives said the combined company will reach an estimated 16.6 million unique users a month and will rank as the eighth largest property on the Internet with a reach of 22 percent of Net users , citing data from Media Metrix .
As part of the deal , CNET will get ZDNet 's network of online publications along with print publications Computer Shopper and the company 's stake in Red Herring Communications .
Holders of Ziff-Davis stock , which is the majority owner of ZDNet , will hold about 35 percent of the combined equity .
Softbank Corp. , which owns a majority of the voting stock of Ziff-Davis , has agreed to vote its shares in favor of the deal .
The CNET acquisition comes as Ziff Davis , which spent the bulk of the 1990s acquiring technology magazines and expanding its arsenal of Internet publications , has been aggressively cutting its empire into ever-smaller pieces .
Ziff-Davis , formerly known primarily as a magazine publisher , sold off almost its entire print portfolio in 1999 , including PC Magazine , to a private investment firm , while retaining its online unit .
The company also announced plans to spin off its event unit , which organizes of the annual Comdex exhibition and other trade shows and conferences .
Executives said they plan to spin off its trade show and conference business before closing the deal .
In addition , Ziff-Davis expects to pay a cash dividend of about $ 2.50 per Ziff-Davis share to its stockholders by the middle of August .




It 's Time for Carnivore Spin

WASHINGTON -- FBI agents are quietly visiting Capitol Hill to deflect criticism of the agency 's Carnivore surveillance system .
On Friday morning , FBI representatives briefed aides from the House of Representatives on the technical details of Carnivore , a Windows 2000 computer that uses custom software to eavesdrop on people who are the target of an investigation .
Although Attorney General Janet Reno ordered an investigation on Thursday , privacy groups are irate , and a congressional oversight hearing is scheduled , it turns out that Carnivore is fairly straightforward .
" It plugs into a hub in passive listening mode .
All the traffic in the hub goes through this thing , " says an aide who attended the closed-door briefing . "
As comes in , the looks through the traffic and if it looks like the filter criteria , it goes to a Jaz drive . "
communications
software
The FBI agent conducting the investigation logs into the Carnivore box not through the Internet , but via a modem hooked up to a standard phone line , said the source , who asked not to be identified .
" This is something that 's not being used very widely -- in only about a half-dozen cases , " an FBI spokesman said , adding that he was " not at liberty " to disclose where Carnivore had been installed .
On Friday , EarthLink said that the FBI agreed not to use Carnivore again over its network .
The system had reportedly disrupted service for some subscribers in the past .
Wired News contacted more than 15 Internet providers on Friday , but not one would confirm that the FBI had ever installed a Carnivore system in their networks .
AOL , AT&T WorldNet , Excite , Bell Atlantic , and MCI WorldCom refused to comment on either past or current installations of Carnivore .
Typically , the government request for a wiretap includes a provision instructing the company not to talk about it .
Many smaller Internet service providers said they were not using Carnivore and that they had not been contacted by the FBI , with some adding that privacy concerns of their customers would be paramount .
" As far as I know we 're not using it .
We 've never been contacted by the FBI regarding it , " a spokesman for Concentric Networks said . "
If we were , I suppose we would have some serious issues regarding how it would affect the privacy of our customers . "
A spokesman for Universal Broadband said : " It 's our policy not to subscribe to such requests by the federal government unless they can put a valid subpoena in front of us . "
Onemain.com would only say that Carnivore " is not an issue for us .
We abide by the FBI 's wiretapping laws and procedures . "
Also on Friday , Representative Charles Canady said that the House Judiciary Constitution Subcommittee will hold a hearing on Carnivore on July 24 .
R-Florida
And the American Civil Liberties Union filed a freedom of information request with the FBI on Friday .
It asks for all " letters , correspondence , tape recordings , notes , data , memoranda , email , computer source and object code , technical manuals , technical specifications " related to Carnivore .
and
The ACLU said the request for source code -- perhaps the first of its kind -- is necessary to understand how the software works and if it infringes on privacy rights .
The FBI , which has 20 business days to reply , has indicated it views the Carnivore source as confidential .
Nicholas Morehead contributed to this report .




ACLU : Law Needs ' Carnivore ' Fix

" It limits the messages viewable by human eyes to those which are strictly included in the court order , " he said . "
Unless Jill Smith 's communications are flagged , we do n't see Sally 's , Jane 's , or anyone else 's , we just see Jill Smith 's . "
The concept that Carnivore searches through millions of emails per second is misleading , the spokesman said on Tuesday .
Reading from a prepared statement , he said the system was " designed to be installed at the premises of a typical ISP , which provides its customers with a dial up service to the Internet . "
Because the volume of email flowing through such connections is small and runs at slow speeds , the numbers are not in the millions of emails per second , he said .
But the ACLU still is n't prepared to trust the FBI with access to such an ongoing stream of email messages .
" We have too much history of law enforcement abuse to believe that when they are well beyond anybody 's scrutiny -- including in this case the scrutiny of the ISPs -- that they will adhere to the letter , let alone to the spirit , of the law , " Steinhardt said .
Countering that point , the FBI spokesman said that even if the agency were to overlook restrictions prohibiting such wide-scale review of email , the task would be formidable .
" We have n't the time nor the inclination to randomly , " the spokesman said . " ' Hey , this looks interesting , ' ' Oh let 's look at that , ' ' Oh , look at that one ' -- I mean , come on -- give me a break . "
search all messages passing through the system
In any case , he said , the FBI 's use of the system is subject to intense oversight by internal agency controls , the Department of Justice , and by the court that issued the order .
Penalties for misuse include the exclusion of illegally obtained evidence in a trial , as well as criminal and civil penalties .
But privacy advocates sided with the ACLU on Tuesday and believe that Carnivore can not be reliably operated under current law .
" Disclosures of this capability raise significant privacy issues , and call into question the adequacy of existing federal wiretap laws , " said David Sobel , general counsel of the Electronic Privacy Information Center . "
As technology advances , the laws become more antiquated . "
Sobel said it 's imperative that Congress look at current law enforcement investigative technologies and bring the applicable laws into compliance with " current realities . "
" None of the ISPs in WAISP has ever contacted me with questions about it , and as long as the FBI showed up with a valid warrant , ISPs would comply , " said Gary Gardener , executive director of the Washington Association of Internet Service Providers .
WAISP
" It does raise disturbing questions about the info collected that is not subject to the investigation at hand , but as long as the rules of evidence are adhered to , and the court issues the proper warrant , we 'll have to wait for Congress to resolve the issue . "
then
The ACLU 's Steinhardt does n't expect immediate attention by Congress , but does believe that Congress will eventually act .
" I do think over the long term that there 's some reason to hope that the Congress will in fact appreciate the need to amend existing law to cover these new situations -- and that if we do n't , we 're going to allow the technology to swallow up the Fourth Amendment and to render it meaningless , " he said .




TV Eyes the Phone Line

If companies like mPhase Technologies get their way , you may soon not need a cable company to watch your favorite channels .
Instead , the programming of ESPN , Comedy Central , and C-SPAN will be beamed to your television set through a DSL-boosted phone line and a set-top box .
" This is television over DSL .
This really brings to the table the biggest revenue opportunity for the phone company , " said Ronald Durando , president and CEO of mPhase Technologies . "
We believe is critical to the success of DSL long term . "
TV over DSL
mPhase Technologies announced agreements Wednesday with major TV networks , who will begin testing their signals over mPhase-equipped phone lines .
Companies including A&E , BBC , BET , Comedy Central , C-SPAN , the Discovery Channel , ESPN , and the Weather Channel joined an mPhase test that is taking place in Hartwell , Georgia .
A telco switching office outfitted with mPhase transmission equipment in Hartwell uses digital subscriber line technology that can stuff high-bandwidth digital video signals over plain old phone lines .
DSL
DSL is a technology that delivers high-speed Internet access for consumers and businesses over copper phone lines , but it requires special transmitting and receiving equipment .
Companies such as mPhase believe a video service that is delivered to TVs could accompany those existing services over a single phone line .
The test run will pump 54 channels over twisted-pair copper wires to selected residences .
The mPhase Traverser DVDDS transmission system , located at a switching office , uses a Rate Adaptive implementation of DSL .
The hardware costs less than a quarter million dollars , which according to mPhase dramatically lowers the price of video over DSL .
The Traverser is theoretically capable of simultaneously transmitting both high-speed Internet access and 400 channels of digital television programming , the company said .
mPhase sees a market for the service among local phone companies that serve rural areas , where many homes are n't served by coaxial cable .
Durando said mPhase is targeting the 300 nationwide telcos , which service 15 million copper phone lines , as well as international providers .
In addition to regional phone companies , mPhase is pitching to local exchange carriers who want to compete with cable companies for both TV and Internet services .
182 million copper telephone lines in the US and 827 million worldwide are operated by such carriers , according to research firm Dataquest .
One analyst said mPhase 's technology is legit .
" The technology 's ready for primetime , " said Gerry Kaufhold , analyst at Cahners In-Stat Group .
Kaufhold says the company 's DSL improves high-bandwidth video quality over copper . "
MPhase has developed something that works really well . "




Nuke Site Fire Released Plutonium

RICHLAND , Washington -- The fire that scorched the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in Washington last month released plutonium and other radioactive elements into the atmosphere , the Department of Energy revealed Wednesday .
DOE
The announcement contradicted an earlier report that sampling conducted by radiation control teams during the second day of the June 27 fire " showed only background levels . "
The fire invaded the heart of the nuclear facility that produced plutonium for nuclear weapons from 1943 to 1989 .
Earlier measurements by air sampling monitors within and around the nuclear waste reservation found no evidence that radiation had been released by the fire , which burned some 200,000 acres , about half the area of the Hanford site .
But a more sensitive test of an air sample from the a region near the center of the 560 square mile reservation , called the 200 West area , turned up particles of plutonium .
Some of the most dangerous radioactive wastes stored at Hanford are in the 200 West area .
The agency now says the amounts of radiation released were small , and " should pose no public health risk . "
According to the department , the fire burned across three closed waste-management units -- the B/C Cribs and the 216-S and 219-S Ponds -- as it moved through the region south of the 200 West area .
It came within a half mile of the sites 177 underground tanks of high-level radioactive and chemical wastes .
The DOE said the source of the recently detected plutonium particles is not known , but that surface contamination could have been disturbed by the fire and the actions of firefighters .
The amount of plutonium measured was " well below the level of concern " set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency , the DOE , and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission , according to Harry Boston , the DOE 's deputy manager at Hanford .
The DOE said the amount of plutonium in the sample would only be enough to cause a three millirem exposure if a person breathed that air for a full year .
In contrast , the average X-ray examination exposes a person to 10 to 15 millirem .
Workers at Hanford are given an upper limit of 100 millirem a year .




It 's the Burning Man Network

Each year a desert wasteland is transformed into a temporary , counterculture metropolis that draws thousands of citizens inspired to survive on the basics .
For the first time , those " basics " will include an intranet .
Three intrepid volunteers are constructing a wireless , high-speed network for the annual Burning Man event set to begin August 28 in Nevada 's Black Rock desert .
Attendees with laptops equipped with wireless cards can plug into the public network , while those who leave computer equipment at home can use one of the public kiosk booths .
Since the PlayaNET volunteers anticipate that most of even the geekiest attendees will leave fragile equipment at home , they 're setting up network-enabled terminals in Center Camp and two other points in the city .
Each booth will have several public computers for use , as well as open network ports that attendees can plug laptops into if they lack wireless gear .
The network will include a chat room , though considering Burning Man 's emphasis on community , PlayaNET volunteer Chris Petrell said it would be " pretty sick for people to want to chat at Burning Man when the people they 're chatting with are right there in real life . "
The PlayaNET volunteers got the idea for an internal network in 1998 when Petrell witnessed a car accident on his way into Burning Man and had a tough time reaching the son of the accident victim , who was inside the event awaiting his father 's arrival .
" I had to go around to every single radio station trying to get a message to the son , " Petrell said . "
We searched all night and part of the next day and eventually gave up .
I wanted to set up something that would enable better communications in the city . "
That something took the form of a wireless network , which Petrell and the two other PlayaNET volunteers hoped would supplement the inefficient paper-based bulletin boards that Burning Man organizers construct in the camp .
" Anyone who 's gone to Burning Man midway through the week knows that the Find-a-Camp Bulletin Board is a joke , " said PlayaNET volunteer Matt Peterson . "
It 's a piece of plywood with paper flying off it .
You can n't find anything that way . "
Nonetheless , without public access to phones , email , and other forms of communication , an analog message board was the only option available for attendees .
But after knocking around the idea of building a rudimentary network on the playa Peterson , Petrell , and cohort Tristan Horn decided to give it a go .
" We 'd brought Ricochet wireless modems out there last year and they worked OK , but they 're so slow , " Peterson said . "
We wanted to build something better . "
The three system administrators knew they could construct a wireless network with a few thousand dollars worth of wireless equipment , so they set about buying what they needed , including three access points with omni-directional antennae that will communicate with wireless Apple AirPort cards in each connected computer .
To avoid interference from radio signals and towers at the event , PlayaNET is also building one 42-foot and two 24-foot transmitter towers .
" We 're hoping to make this plug-and-play , " Petrell said . "
We build it and then leave it .
It will be easy to figure out how to use the terminals , which is a good thing , because we 're going to be out on the playa having fun doing other things . "




The Jukebox Heroes

For all the talk about listening to music online , one of the most vexing problems for consumers is how to access music that they have already purchased .
MP3.com CEO Michael Robertson jump-started the race to solve that problem when he created his my.mp3.com service , which allowed users to access their own personal music without the hassle of uploading that music into a virtual storage locker .
In April , the Recording Industry Association of America won its lawsuit against MP3.com , claiming the company created an illegal database of 45,000 CDs which the company purchased and uploaded on to MP3.com 's servers .
Robertson 's ingenious solution was consumer-friendly since people could " space shift " their collections instead of uploading their music into their jukebox , but the suit sought to shut down the service since it violated copyright laws .
Two new companies have jumped into the game as businesses continue to search for ways for consumers to store and retrieve their personal music collections .
Epitonic.com , long a haven for independent musicians and fans , created its own version of the personal jukebox , but with a twist .
Unlike competitors that allow users to upload music from their own collection , epitonic.com 's BlackboxT application only works with music purchased from the company 's website .
" Our site is first and foremost an editorial site that allows people to find new music , " said Aaron Newton , epitonic.com 's president . "
But we wanted to make it easy for people to keep track of the music that they do find .
We want to help people use our site .
Adding music to your locker is n't our gig , that 's Myplay 's . "
The myplay.com users have the option of adding music directly to their virtual music lockers when they purchase music from one of the retail sites affiliated with the company , but consumers are still forced to upload their own collections for online retrieval .
The unknown factor in this space is MusicBank , which continues to quietly plod along , lining up content providers and investors .
On Thursday , the company received $ 20 million in funding from three investors , including the venture capital arm of Bertlesmann AG , BMG 's parent company .
" One thing that our strategy allows us to do is wear the white hat instead of the black hat when it comes to making deals with portals and labels , " said Pierce Ledbetter , MusicBank 's chairman .
While Robertson was haggling over his settlement with two of the major labels in June , BMG announced an agreement with Musicbank , a San Francisco startup , that will let users stream the label 's music from a personal music collection on demand .
The service allows music to be instantly " beamed " into a virtual storage locker from either online or offline retail stores .
" We 're negotiating in good faith with the entire music industry before we launch , which we hope will put in good stead when we start looking into subscriptions and other business models , " said Ledbetter . "
This kind of relationships allows us to set the technology standard in partnership with the labels . "
That relationship might get even closer .
According to Ledbetter , the company is negotiating with the other major labels regarding the possibility of taking them on as investors .
MusicBank is slated to launch before the end of the year .
As companies continue to struggle to create user-friendly personal jukeboxes , each is faced with the dilemma of paying for the music .
Just because consumers have purchased their music in CD form does n't mean that they have a right to access that music for free from a personal jukebox that is being hosted by any company .
Robertson 's settlement yielded a licensing deal with Warner Music and BMG -- one of the primary investors in MusicBank -- that other streaming service companies might be forced to live with .
" All these jukebox-type services need to obtain licenses directly from the record labels because they are the copyright holders , " said Steve Marks , the RIAA 's senior vice president of business . "
But as more and more of these types of deals are getting done , it will be easier for people to understand what licenses they need to obtain . "
The agreement stipulates that MP3.com would pay 1.5 cents for each song that people store in their virtual lockers , and a third of a cent each time a song is streamed .
Somehow that cost will have to be deferred , whether by advertising or a monthly storage fee .




U.S. Lawyers Want Cyberborders

LONDON -- The Internet so easily skips across geographical borders that new " cyber-borders " may be needed , members of the American Bar Association said Monday as they presented a two-year report on the prevention of global online chaos .
Enthusiasts may love the Internet 's disregard for authority and borders , but it presents a major headache for businesses , governments , and consumers .
For example , If a French customer buys a rug from Turkey with a Swiss credit card via a website hosted in the United States , there are risks all around .
The rug might be a dud , the payment might be faulty , and taxes might not be paid .
But where should such matters be settled ?
" It 's as if we 've landed on Mars and we 're constructing a commercial and business setting , " said Thomas Vartanian , who chaired the American Bar Association 's Committee on the Law of Cyberspace , which compiled the report .
The 184-page report was presented at the Association 's annual convention , held in London this year .
The document urged the creation of a global standards commission to help set the rules .
It also said that the simplest answers are not the best .
Many courts currently rule that jurisdiction in any Internet dispute belongs to the country of destination , where the buyer or Web surfer lives .
This means that a business or website can be liable to the laws of every country on earth , an impossible burden .
Others say jurisdiction should go to the country of origin , where the business or Internet site is based .
But that leaves consumers with the task of finding out if they are protected by the laws of a far-off land , and might tempt businesses to jump offshore to unregulated island havens .
A third way may be for buyer and seller to agree between them which country 's laws apply to their deal -- but governments may not be happy with this , especially if highly regulated areas such as drugs or medical treatment are concerned .
Lawyers from the world 's largest professional body proposed new " cyber-borders " as a step towards a solution of a complex and evolving issue .
" Borders are being erased by cyberspace , but you never really erase a border , you replace it , " Vartanian said in an interview .
Determining in whose cyber-territory a deal falls could be settled using complex criteria , such as whether a website deliberately targets the residents of a certain country , or if the customers just happened to stumble across it .
It is not just buying and selling that is at issue , but also the content of a website , which in some countries may be illegal .
In a case of international disagreement , a French judge ordered that Yahoo , a U.S. portal , must block French access to any parts of its U.S. website where third parties auction off Nazi memorabilia .
Yahoo attorney John Place told the conference his company argued that the site was not intended for France , which has its own local www.yahoo.fr site , and that blocking it would be practically impossible .
If the idea of cyber-borders takes off , drawing them looks to be every bit as contentious as the real border disputes of the 19th and 20th centuries .
Vartanian said one solution could be to let technology help solve the problems it has created , by employing intelligent electronic agents , or " cyberbots " that would negotiate issues of jurisdiction for each particular transaction , based on the complex rules set down by a global standards commission .
He said the first rule would be that the buyer and seller have to prove to each other where they are .
Currently , they do n't have to , especially if , as with music downloads or pornography , no goods have to be physically delivered .
The report , a recommendation by the cyber-committee rather than official policy of the Bar Association , said taxation should closely follow jurisdiction .
" This of course is the most controversial section , as the Internet has the possibility of reallocating tax revenues , " Vartanian said .




Signing Up to Be Surveilled

Forget the pager number and do n't bother calling .
One company is making it easier for folks to " track " anyone , by allowing them to pull up a map of the person 's location on a personal digital assistant or computer .
PDA
Cell-Loc Inc. , a Calgary-based company that develops wireless , location-based services , is currently testing two new services .
Fleet Tracking lets businesses such as taxi companies and delivery services keep tabs on their employees .
L411 , a consumer-oriented directory assistance , allows subscribers to call switchboard operators who can view a map and identify where a call is being made from .
Here 's how it works : Cell-Loc puts a system in a radio tower with an antenna that receives and reads a cellphone 's radio waves and stores the data on the company 's cell-locate network .
That data is later transmitted to the company 's cell-locate network .
Anyone with access to the right user name and password can go to the website and pull up a map of the cellphone user 's location .
Only cellphone users that subscribe to the service can be tracked , but members of privacy groups are alarmed at the possibility individuals can abuse their right to access this information and track people without consent .
Someone who gets a hold of another person 's user-id number and password would be able to see where this person is , anytime , anywhere .
With Fleet Tracking , for example , a truck driver may not mind his truck being monitored during the day while he 's working , but his boss would have access to the system to monitor his movements at any time .
" When it 's not something that is under the control of the user and when it 's another person or organization that is tracking the individual without the individual 's consent , then there are significant privacy issues , " said David Sobel , an attorney for the Washington-based Electronic Privacy Information Center . "
They should be able to avoid that minute-by-minute physical surveillance . "
EPIC is part of the U.S. Telecomm Association , which is suing the Federal Communications Commission for issuing an order last year that would allow law enforcement officials to obtain personal cellphone usage information .
The judge 's decision is pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals .
" Most of these capabilities were developed to transmit emergency calls and now we 're seeing it deployed for all other purposes , " Sobel said of tracking .
" If what we 're talking about are cellular handsets where the individual could press a button saying ' find me ' -- it 's much less problematic than when the capability is turned on all the time and it 's not a matter of selection by individual users . "




E-Trading Gets a Grip on Markets

NEW YORK -- Once seen as a mouse roaring at a lion , electronic trading is forcing changes in how the titans of Wall Street do business in the financial markets .
Buying and selling stocks , bonds or commodities online is no longer a fringe activity for the high-rolling day trader , or the baby boomer rejigging a stock portfolio from a home computer .
Brokers at the top investment banks on Wall Street , oil chieftains in Texas , and grain dealers in Iowa are all starting to trade in the telephone and fax for the Internet .
Right now electronic trading systems , where brokers deal among themselves or with their big institutional clients on Web-linked screens , are running in parallel to the traditional forums for professional trading -- be it price checking by telephone for bond markets , open-outcry bidding in the Chicago futures pits , or auction on the New York Stock Exchange floor .
And no one knows exactly how electronic trading will reshape financial markets .
" The electronic broking business is like a free for all , a Wild West , " said Sassan Ghahramani , managing director at Medley Global Advisors in New York .
But major brokerage firms can no longer ignore electronic trading because it cuts down on paperwork and saves them money .
It makes pricing more open and competitive as trades blip instantly onto screens worldwide .
And it 's fast .
" I can do a trade now from beginning to end ... in 10 to 15 seconds , " said Jim Keller , portfolio manager at the world 's largest bond fund , Pacific Investment Management Co.
That 's one-eighth the time it would have taken four years ago .
The cost savings are a major factor driving Wall Street and beyond into electronic trading .
An email confirmation of trade can wipe out back-office paperwork , mistakes , and delays .
For stock trading , a spaghetti network of computers can electronically match huge orders to buy a certain stock at a fixed price with sell orders for less than going through an NYSE market-maker who adds a commission .
For bonds , posting products with prices on the Web site can remove the need for a commission-based sales staff or middleman .
" It 's a bad time to be middleman of any sort " because the Internet will allow buyers and sellers to eliminate the facilitating brokers , said online trading consultant Octavio Marenzi of Celent Communications in Cambridge , Massachusetts .
In the energy business , BP Amoco Plc earlier this year launched a site to sell more than 50 offshore leaseholds in the Gulf of Mexico .
Apache Corp. , an independent oil producer , has taken similar steps .
" It adds to the efficiency in small transactions where the costs can really erode some of your margin , " John Christmann , Apache 's director of business management , said .
But do n't sound the death knell for all brokers left in the middle .
Complex products , such as commercial mortgage backed securities , will require a specialist to explain their value , said Lisa Pendergast , analyst at Prudential Securities Inc.
And even in stocks , where electronic platforms such as Instinet , Archipelago and Island are highly developed and have snared 30 percent of the trading from Nasdaq , investment bank seem unconvinced the middleman 's days are over .
Merrill Lynch and Co. , the largest U.S. brokerage firm , just bought stock market-maker Herzog Heine Geduld .
Another major advantage of Internet trading is its ability to shine some light on pricing , promoting competition .
Corporate bond trading , for instance , has long been a clubby world where dealers and clients telephone each other to seal the deal , and there is no public quotation system to price shop .
Regulators and bond dealers are debating how to address this .
Already changes are afoot in the primary market .
Ford Motor Credit Co. this year became the first company to sell corporate bonds online -- an area pioneered by municipal bonds -- attracting a wider field of investors .
Electronic systems allow dealers to post their best prices , like hanging a slate outside their stores , and then customers can shop around .
For grain dealers , it is proven successful .
" You can pick up some bargains because somebody has got something that is left on there that is not necessarily following the market , " said Mike Kane , division manager of Ceres Ag Products in Florida .
But the profusion of electronic trading systems has its dark side .
It threatens to fragment markets , dispersing the volume needed to keep trading costs low and pricing competitive .
In the foreign exchange market , clients face a new headache .
Many banks have launched proprietary Web-based trading systems .
The result -- too many icons , too many passwords , conflicting software .
It makes the 19th century telephone look easy .
To answer these problems , big banks are forming consortiums , and mergers among start-up electronic systems have begun .
" The biggest issue is the same issue that is facing the dot-com companies , " John Coffee , securities professor at Columbia University , said . "
It is easy to enter this field but sooner or later there is going to be a shakeout . "




Tech-Teaching Toys Woo Smart Kids

Not so long ago , toys did n't get much techier than an Easy-Bake Oven or a Lite-Brite , but today 's crop of smart toys makes your old Speak & Spell look like an antique .
What 's more , high-tech smart toys are n't aimed just at pre-teens who have outgrown Matchbox toys and Barbies .
Toys like the Lego MyBot , set to hit the market in September , are targeted squarely at young kids .
The MyBot , intended for kids 4 to 6 , has a cockpit micro-computer that can be used as the base for a race car , a robot , or a rocket .
How the toy is transformed depends on which of the included " smart bricks " a kid attaches .
The concept is simple , but it allows very young children to experiment with using technology to create their own toys .
" When kids choose what smart bricks to put in the MyBot they 're essentially creating a very simple computer program , " said Mitchel Resnick , associate professor at the MIT Media Lab , which developed the MyBot in conjunction with Lego . "
It 's an early activity that opens up kids ' minds to the ways they can design toys or objects to their own satisfaction . "
The MyBot set looks much like any other set of traditional LEGO Duplo building blocks : stackable blocks with an assortment of wheels , crane arms , and other accessories .
What sets MyBot apart are the so-called " smartbricks " that attach to the top of the cockpit and instruct the micro-computer whether the object is meant to be a robot , a car , or a rocket .
Kids then attach one of three activity bricks , which affect how the toy reacts to movement , light , and other stimuli .
Each new combination of bricks generates different sounds , lights , and readouts on the LCD screen in the cockpit .
Of course , creating a toy that makes various bleeps and bloops , or reacts when you shine a flashlight on it , is pretty far from designing advanced hardware and software .
But a toy like MyBot gets kids thinking about how and why objects are built , rather than encouraging passivity like a television set .
" Your traditional Lego set or other building-block sets are a great tool -- kids learn about engineering , about geometry , " Resnick said . "
But with toys like MyBot , kids are being introduced to use technology for their own ends . "
Many pundits have speculated that tech-rich smart toys help kids get comfortable with technology at an early age .
But Resnick said the aim should be getting kids to actually use the technology .
" It 's not just about being exposed to new technology , about interacting by clicking on links , " Resnick said . "
A toy that talks , it may be cool , but what does it teach kids ?
We want to create an opportunity and tools for kids to control technology . "
Certainly that was the goal with the Lego MindStorms product line aimed at older kids .
MindStorms products use programmable bricks that connect with PCs to allow kids to build customized robots and robotic vehicles .
Child development experts are universally enthusiastic about the Lego-MediaLab research and the products that have emerged thus far from the partnership .




Virtual Sexpots : No End in Sight

In the gaming world , conventional wisdom says female characters have come a long way from their strictly blonde and helpless roots .
But critics say these digital chicks still have a long way to go .
The choice to maintain an emphasis on unrealistically shaped , submissive women , sexy dialogue , and plots that push the line between gaming and porn has rankled feminist organizations , angry parent groups , and operators of gaming websites for women .
Kathryn Wright , consulting psychologist of WomenGamers.com , says some publishers and game makers are falling short .
In May , the site created an activism forum that encourages visitors to contact game publishers with their concerns .
" We are seeing a wave of games that exploit women and seem to promote misogynistic attitudes , " Wright said in a June 30 article on the WomenGamers site , citing games such as Panty Raider , Fear Effect II , and Phantasmagoria as examples .
Simon and Schuster Interactive
Eidos Interactive
Sierra Online
Like magazines and movies , video games stand accused of objectifying women .
However , charges may be more severe in this case since game designers can exaggerate physical features to produce a customized female body .
" The steady diet of media images portraying women as sexual objects ... affects how we see women and their role in society , " Wright said .
Dads and Daughters , a national nonprofit that works to transform devaluing media messages about women , criticizes these types of games and questions the effects exposure to them have on young men .
DAD
" We are offended when our sons are repeatedly subjected to the destructive stereotypes of boys objectifying females , placing titillation above all else , and using violence or its threat to get their way , " said DAD Executive Director Joe Kelly .
But such claims are hotly disputed , unsurprisingly by those working in the video game industry . "
I do n't really believe that video games cause people to be violent , " said Josh Reinholds , manager of the Electric Boutique game store in San Francisco . "
If a person is n't already violent , or does n't have tendencies toward violence , then a video game is n't going to make them . "
Others in the gaming world hold a different opinion .
Avid gamer Noel Sampson readily opposes graphic violence toward women in video games .
" It shows that some of these game developers have n't really thought about who much of their audience is , " Sampson said .
In 1999 , 51 percent of console software buyers were women , and women also accounted for 49 percent of PC entertainment software sales , according to the Interactive Digital Software Association .




The Open Source of MP3s

The Ogg project started the way lots of open source projects get started -- someone wanted to try to improve technology .
When Chris Montgomery was at MIT , he was trying to create a better compression technology for delivering media content over the Internet .
There were already technologies out there that could deliver that media , but Montgomery wanted to do it better .
The first part of his project , Vorbis , was an open source alternative to the popular music codec MP3 .
" Vorbis is going to continue what MP3 was all about , which is opening things up for everybody , " Montgomery said . "
Getting your music out in the world now is going to be absolutely free .
It has to be open from both sides , it can n't just be the free distribution , the technology itself has to be free or it will never realize what the whole MP3 movement is about . "
For a long time though , Vorbis was just a side-project for him .
He worked on it when he could , but it was n't a priority until the German-based Fraunhofer-Gesellshaft Institute that created the MP3 codec sent out letters announcing its intention to pursue monetary remuneration not only for licensing the encoders which are used to turn files into MP3s , but also for each stream that carries an MP3 file .
While the MP3 compression file has created a lot of buzz for allowing users to obtain music for free using file-trading applications like Napster and Gnutella , the file itself is n't free .
Over sixty companies -- including RealNetworks and emusic.com -- currently pay Fraunhofer to license the encoders and decoders which turn music into the codec .
Its insistence on charging licensing fees had the potential to put many small webcasters out of business .
" Fraunhofer is a private institution , so they can say that you can license MP3 technology , but you can n't , " Montgomery said . "
The playing field really is n't level . "
All companies licensing technology from Fraunhofer pay an annual fee of $ 15,000 .
Software companies pay $ 2.50 per encoder shipped and hardware companies pay $ .50 per decoder or player shipped .
While Montgomery was racing to create this first version of Vorbis , Fraunhofer 's new demand to receive money each time a company streamed an MP3 got Brian Zisk 's attention , partly because his old company Green Witch Internet Radio -- now part of iCast -- would likely have been affected .
Through his affiliation with Green Witch , Zisk met Icecast 's Jack Moffit at this year 's SXSW Music Conference in Austin , Texas .
Moffit was one of the developers of the open source servers that Green Witch used to stream its webcasts .
The two hit it off immediately , creating a live , streaming radio show together on the trade show floor .
" We were taking bands , making their music into MP3s and broadcasting it into the trade show floor and onto the Internet , " Zisk said . "
The bands were going crazy for it .
We really kicked ass , and two days later , Jack dropped out of college and came out to San Francisco to join us . "
When Montgomery joined the team soon thereafter , the three began working on the Vorbis project full-time .
Zisk estimates that some 20 developers are tinkering with Vorbis every day .
The three are together now at iCast , spearheading the development of Vorbis though the software registered under the GNU Public License and the libraries under the Lesser/Library GNU Public License , which requires any developer who modifies the new codec to re-release the modified version back into the open source community .
Already compatible with Winamp , Sonique , Freeamp , and XMMS , Vorbis also has the support of two popular open source encoders , LAME and BladeEnc .
Still in its public beta test , the new format has many years of tinkering and tweaking ahead of it .
For Zisk , this is the beginning of a quest to re-open the Internet to users and not corporations .
" It 's really important to provide open structures where the musicians , the artists , and the technologists are n't beholden to interests that can break what they are building , " Zisk said .
" If you work with these open systems , you can build an infrastructure which is going to continue working for you , as opposed to being forced to build something that can knocked over at any point . "




Vinyl Chemicals Threaten Infants

A government panel has expressed " serious concern " that chemicals used in vinyl medical products may harm the reproductive organs of critically ill male infants who are exposed during medical treatments .
The panel of scientists also concluded that they have " concern " over effects of chemical exposure on healthy male infants and toddlers .
Babies exposed to phthalates -- the chemicals used to soften vinyl -- during the mother 's pregnancy , or during the first years of life from non-medical products containing the chemicals , may have had the development of their reproductive systems harmed .
Female infants may also be affected by exposure , but appear not to be as sensitive to the reproductive effects as males , the panel said .
The independent , expert panel appointed by the federal National Toxicology Program began the phthalate review last August .
NTP
This is the first time the NTP has evaluated the reproductive and developmental toxicity of a chemical rather than its cancer-causing properties .
Panelists reviewed existing literature in their areas of expertise and provided other panel members with their summary evaluations .
The scientists reviewed almost 1,000 reports and studies covering the general toxicity of these chemicals in animals and humans , their developmental and reproductive toxicity , and information on human exposure .
The expert panel held three meetings over the course of the past year .
At the third meeting held last week the panel concluded its literature review and its summary on the effects of one particular phthalate , DEHP ( di-ethylhexyl phthalate .
DEHP is used to make vinyl plastics soft and flexible .
According to the panel , the threat of exposure is high from some medical procedures because DEHP is not chemically bonded to the plastic it softens , and can leach from vinyl medical products as a result .
The National Toxicology Program 's expert panel notes that DEHP " can leach out when the medical device comes in contact with fluids such as blood , plasma and drug solutions , or it can be released and migrate when the device is heated , " as in some sterilization procedures .
The chemical will " readily dissolve " in blood and blood products , infant formulas , and some IV medications , the panel says .
In addition to its use in the manufacture of medical products , the chemical DEHP is found in other vinyl products , including floorings , wall coverings , furniture , luggage , and children 's toys .
The panel 's findings confirm the report released yesterday by Health Care Without Harm , a national collaborative campaign for environmentally responsible health care made up of more than 250 citizens ' organizations .
The Health Care Without Harm study found that fetuses , premature infants , and newborns are exposed to large amounts of the chemical suspected to cause reproductive and developmental problems in humans .




Is MSN No. 1 ?
Or Not ?

NEW YORK -- Analysts cautioned against attaching too much importance to the claim by Microsoft Corp. on Monday that its Internet services , MSN , had become the No. 1 worldwide Internet destination for consumers .
The company said in a statement that 201 million unique users visited MSN , or Microsoft Services Network , during June 2000 , according to its own internal data that does not double-count users -- more than used America Online or Yahoo .
But analysts said there are several ways to count users and that relative standing is not that important .
" It 's not that meaningful .
Arguing about who is No. 1 , 2 or 3 is not as important .
It 's easy to distort statistics ; measurability of the Web is less than ideal despite all the efforts , " said Jordan Rohan , analyst at Wit/Soundview .
MSN 's network integrates content and services , including its free e-mail service MSN Hotmail , which has more than 67 million active accounts , its instant messaging service MSN Messenger and its online personal finance service MSN MoneyCentral .
MSNBC and online travel firm Expedia 's site are also part of its network .
" I suspect that there might be some apples and oranges going on here , " said David Card , analyst at Jupiter Communications . "
It 's clear they are a contender ; a lot of people do n't give them credit for it .
Third-party data sources do show Microsoft properties with recast figures as wide as AOL and Yahoo , but I do n't think reach is that important .
time is extremely important and AOL has everyone beat there . "
Usage
Some analysts said MSN 's internal numbers may reflect international growth , which many of the independent data firms do not fully track yet .
According to Media Metrix 's most recent multicountry report , which measures about 65 percent of the world 's Internet users and measures at-home usage only , AOL 's properties saw 72.2 million unique visitors in March .
Microsoft 's sites were next , with 59.6 million unique visitors , and Yahoo was a close third with 58.2 million unique visitors .
However , most analysts said Yahoo has the largest international presence and strongest brand name abroad at the moment , with AOL and MSN trying to make inroads .
In May , MSN said it would spend $ 90 million in Asia to offer new services and expand its marketing .
AOL recently launched its service in Mexico and is planning for an initial public offering of its AOL-Latin America , Inc. , venture at the end of this month .
While Yahoo is seen as a leader on the international front , analysts said MSN is gaining ground in some countries .
" The real question is do they have scale internationally , " Rohan said . "
No one is going to look at buying Microsoft because of this .
They are buying it because of their applications and operating software , not their Web reach . "
Shares of Microsoft were last off 1/2 at 78-7/16 while shares of AOL rose 11/16 to 62-1/2 and shares of Yahoo rallied 5-1/4 at 133-1/4 .




New Dots on the Net Scene

YOKOHAMA , Japan -- The dominance of the dot.coms is over .
By the end of this year , addresses on the World Wide Web will use new suffixes such as . shop , . tel , and .news.
The first such change in over 10 years was approved on Sunday by a meeting in Japan of the Internet 's managing authority on such suffixes , called top-level domains .
TLDs
The new suffixes will be added to existing domain names such as .com for companies , .org for charities , and .edu for educational bodies .
" It 's clear this is going to happen , and things are moving towards that right now , " Esther Dyson , chairwoman of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers , told reporters .
ICANN
ICANN will begin taking applications from companies that plan to sell and register the new top-level domains , called registrars .
Those companies will submit proposals for the new TLDs and explain how they will screen and register those seeking to own Websites with the new suffixes .
Applications will start in August , and by the end of the year the registrars and their new " dot.somethings " will be chosen .
After that , the registrars will sell domain names -- which come before the dot -- to the public .
The selection process will be debated at ICANN 's next meeting in Los Angeles this autumn .
Dyson said the first new Web addresses would start to appear by the end of this year or the beginning of next , but no one will know what the new top-level domains will be until November .
" This will remove much of the artificial scarcity on the Web right now , " Dyson said .
There are no rules on naming dot.coms , but ICANN has decided that guidelines will be needed for naming websites under new TLDs since registrars will be faced with a hornet 's nest of problems .
Internet companies are concerned that a mess of new TLDs could confuse users .
Concerns have already been raised over the possibility of attempts to register well-known names by companies not connected with the organisation known by that name .
Other worries involve trademark right infringement and the question of whether ownership of a dot.com address gives rights over another " dot.something " address .
That 's why registrars will have to make rigorously clear to ICANN their screening process for new websites .
Dyson said utmost efforts would be made to ensure that the selection process for new registrars will be done in a transparent and equitable way .
ICANN obtained its policy-making authority in 1998 from the U.S. Commerce Department , which controls the main servers of allowable top-level domains .




Will Apple Be Hip to Be Square ?

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- Say what you will about his taste for colorful , cute computers , you can n't deny that Steve Jobs knows how to design a dramatic keynote .
Ever since Jobs returned to his beloved Apple in late 1996 , the once and again CEO has used Macworld as a launching pad for some of the biggest Apple innovations .
This year , the buzz at Macworld NYC is centered around a box that 's being called " The Cube . "
Specifications for the Cube , as reported by Mac rumor sites like Mac OS Rumors and Apple Insider , describe a computer that sounds remarkably like an iMac sans screen -- leading sources close to Apple to dub it the " Sleepy Hollow Mac " in honor of its " headless " status and the mystery surrounding the unit .
Rumors about the Cube have been surfacing for some time , but Apple added fuel to the fire recently when its legal department reportedly demanded that the information about the machine be removed from Mac OS Rumors and Apple Insider .
Apple refused to comment on whether it threatened legal action , but a spokeswoman said any supposed product preview that includes an Apple logo could spark a missive from the company 's legal department about unauthorized usage .
As outlined on Apple Insider , the Cube has all the benefits of the iMac -- interesting styling , a low price , and a sealed system that does n't allow for expansion .
and drawbacks
In fact , some observers would n't be surprised if the Cube actually turns out to be the newest entry in Apple 's iMac line .
" If you remember , back when Apple first introduced the iMac , there were rumors swirling about an innovative box or cube device that would revolutionize the way we used computers .
What I 'm seeing here is a rerun of the same rumors , updated for Macworld NYC , " said a source who asked not to be identified .
Unlike other companies that often announce forthcoming products well in advance of industry tradeshows , Apple is famous for locking down information on upcoming products from both media and its own employees .
Previous Macworld surprises that were kept under wraps by the company include Jobs ' 1997 shocker that Microsoft would be investing $ 100 million in Apple , the utterly unexpected iMac debut at 1998 , and the iBook and Airport announcements of 1999 .
Cubed or not , Jobs will almost certainly announce new iMacs .
Giving credibility to the rumors are the dwindling supplies of the units in the sales channel .
Apple is moving iMacs out of its own inventory by contracting Costco , a bargain warehouse , to sell discounted 350 MHz iMacs and DV SE models , according to sources familiar with Apple 's distribution .




DeCSS Lawyers Press MPAA

NEW YORK -- Pirating DVDs on the Internet is not nearly as easy as the entertainment industry claims , attorneys for 2600 magazine suggested during cross-examination Monday .
Eight motion picture studios sued the hacker-zine in January , claiming it illegally distributed the DeCSS utility that facilitates decoding and redistributing DVDs .
The trial , which began this week , is the first to test the constitutionality of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act .
Attorney Martin Garbus , representing 2600 , said an industry experiment designed to illustrate the ease of finding pirated software through chat rooms was staged and unrealistic .
" Did you know that conducting the studies after midnight when school was out would give you a different result ? "
Garbus asked an industry witness .
" Do you have any idea how long it would take to make these transmissions during a normal school year ? "
Garbus pressed .
An outside expert , Carnegie Mellon University scientist Michael Shamos , testified earlier Monday that he and an assistant went undercover on an Internet Relay Chat channel and were able to find a pirated copy of The Matrix .
But Garbus pointed out that , far from being a task that was trivial to perform , the pair had to take about 20 hours to find a prospective partner , download The Matrix , and upload Sleepless in Seattle in return .
Under cross-examination , Shamos admitted that it was quite difficult to create the Sleepless in Seattle file to upload in exchange .
" The audio and video track has to be synchronized together , " Shamos admitted , adding that the task took many hours to complete .
" One of the reasons you chose was that he had a background in the underground Internet world , as it were , " Garbus said .
your assistant
" That was one of the reasons , " replied the witness .
Garbus also suggested that the transfer , which took six hours , was accelerated due to CMU 's unusually fast Internet link through the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center .
Shamos said that he had been contacted by the Motion Picture Association of America to perform the research , and expects to gain about $ 30,000 in fees at $ 400 an hour from the project .
He said he makes $ 700,000 a year in addition to his CMU salary by teaching courses for businesses and working on other consulting projects .
Garbus tried to stress the point that it 's unknown how much piracy , if any , is due to the release of DeCSS .
" Do you know one person who copied allegedly DVD , based on information supplied by the defendant in this case ? "
Garbus asked .
" No , " replied Shamos .
At the end of the cross-examination Garbus also questioned whether the Microsoft Windows site license -- which is targeted at educational use at the university -- permits the use by researchers working on outside projects .
The trial continues Tuesday at 9 a.m. , EDT , with a defense witness who will testify about how he descrambled the code used to encrypt DVDs .
Both sides plan on calling between four and eight witnesses .




FBI Pressuring Spy Archivist

The FBI wants to delete a Japanese intelligence document from a U.S. website .
Two special agents on Thursday contacted online archivist John Young , who maintains a massive archive of files related to spy agencies , and politely asked him to yank information related to Japan 's Public Security Investigation Agency .
Young refused to comply with the request .
He said the FBI told him they were asking on behalf of the Japanese Ministry of Justice , which oversees the PSIA .
An FBI spokesman was not immediately available for comment .
The 120 KB document appears to be a PSIA personnel file , with over 400 names , birthdates , and titles , starting with Director General Hidenao Toyoshima .
The document 's title : " The Most Incompetent Intelligence Agency in the World . "
" There 's nothing wrong with me putting this stuff up in the U.S. , " Young says of his cryptome.org site . "
It 's not wrong or illegal . "
Young , a 64-year-old New York architect , has spent years amassing a vast collection of reports .
The collection , over 4,000 files about privacy , technology , and intelligence agencies , is probably the world 's most comprehensive public collection of its kind .
For the last week , Young has been busy placing a series of documents related to Japanese intelligence on cryptome.org .
Last Friday , he posted what appears to be an internal CIA document about the agenda of a Japanese delegation 's visit in June 1998 .
On Sunday , Young added a document apparently classified as " secret " by the CIA -- also prepared for Japanese officials -- that includes a fairly detailed overview of the U.S. intelligence community , including its budgets and personnel trends .
Its author is listed as assistant CIA director Charles Allen , who referred calls to a spokeswoman .
" We 're always concerned if classified information is made public , " a CIA spokeswoman said . "
That 's a serious matter .
...
Leaks of classified information are certainly of concern to this agency . "
Young has identified his source for the apparently leaked documents only as " S.K. "
Someone using the name Shigeo Kifuji last week posted some of the same documents on the alt.security.espionage newsgroup using a Web-based email account .
The agents who contacted Young -- James Castano and David Marzilliano of the New York field office -- did not comment .
" Both agents were very courteous during most of the conversations , " Young said in an account posted on his website . "
Except toward the end of the conversation with Mr. Marzigliano &#91;sic&#93 ; , when I mentioned my intention to publish an account without revealing his and Mr. Castano 's names , he warned me there would be ' serious trouble ' if their names were published , and that he would be speaking with the U.S. Attorney about the matter and call me again . "
Marzilliano directed calls to FBI spokesman James Margolin , who was not immediately available .
A spokesman at headquarters in Washington was also not available .
This is n't the first time Young appears to have irritated an intelligence agency .
He reported this spring that a British spy agency , apparently MI5 , contacted his Internet service provider and asked that they yank sensitive documents that Young had posted .
Japan 's PSIA , the rough equivalent of the United States ' FBI , was created in 1952 .
It has 43 field offices and is tasked with enforcing the Subversive Activities Prevention Law aimed at violent activists and " disruptive " organizations .




This Friday , Make it < cite>Real</cite> Casual

NEW YORK -- On Friday , instead of seething in your car as you crawl toward your office in rush-hour traffic , or breaking a sweat to catch the bus or a train , just phone it in.
That 's right , phone it in.
This Friday is the first National Work at Home Day , an occasion when there will n't be any need to feel guilty about negotiating a multimillion-dollar deal in your boxers and bunny slippers , or interviewing a chief executive while wearing just a towel .
About 19.6 million Americans telecommuted to work in 1999 , up from just 4 million in 1990 .
That number will grow this decade as advances in technology and more jobs in the digital economy make it possible for more people to work at home outside a structured office setting , says Gail Martin , executive director of the International Telework Association and Council , based in Washington , D.C.
A telecommuter is defined as someone who works for someone else -- a public or private corporation -- from home , she said .
" There 's definitely an environmental benefit , " said Marty Marston , public relations manager of IKEA , sponsor of the National Work at Home Day , adding that fewer cars on the road mean fewer cars " depleting our ozone . "
But there 's a side to working at home that even Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan would love .
People who work at home , even just one day a week , say it boosts productivity .
" When I work from home , I am far more productive in a day than when I 'm in the office , " Marston said . "
That 's the day for all your reading , your writing , when you can get it done , without interruptions . "
IKEA , the Swedish patron saint of self-service interior design , is sponsoring National Work at Home Day on July 21 , in connection with its latest promotion of home office furniture .
" There 's always a commercial hook , of course , " said Marston , who represents IKEA in the United States . "
We have a website and a contest .
Write in and tell us what your daily commuting costs are .
We will match that and donate up to a total of $ 20,000 to Earth Share , " a private , nonprofit umbrella organisation of more than 40 tax-exempt environmental groups , including the World Wildlife Federation .
So you can skip your commute , even do without a shower , get all of your work done , and help save the rain forest or an endangered species or two , to boot .
Kalman Stein , president and chief executive of Earth Share , of Washington , D.C. , said " the benefits of telecommuting are enormous .
From an environmental standpoint , it reduces smog and global warming , which is something we 've been promoting for a long time .
We still have 100 cities in the U.S. that do n't meet the EPA standards for clean air , and auto emissions are the single biggest " source of air pollution except factories .
People who commute to and from work by car usually are alone in a vehicle , Stein pointed out .
And the expense -- for tolls , gasoline , wear and tear on the vehicle and insurance -- can be " unbelievable . "
The other cost is time spent commuting " and I do n't know how you put a value on that , " he added .
Tell IKEA your " Top 10 " reasons to work at home -- borrowing a bit from comedian and talk show host David Letterman -- and have a chance to win $ 50 worth of home office products from IKEA .
Click on the Work at Home section .
More than 3,000 people clicked on the IKEA Web site to enter the contest in its first day and a half of registration , " something that just blew our minds , " Marston said .




The Cube : Apple 's NeXT Mistake ?

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- Macworld Expo is buzzing with the news that the Cube is the NeXT big thing at Apple .
But some attendees could n't help but notice the strong resemblance between the G4 Cube , which was announced Wednesday , and Steve Job 's original NeXT box .
NeXT , Inc. was founded in 1985 by a then-exiled-from-Apple Steve Jobs .
The company introduced a " revolutionary " black cube-shaped computers late 1988 , one of which is now enshrined in the RetroComputing museum .
The NeXT cubes featured an optical drive instead of a floppy drive , but the first models were panned because they were thought to be overpriced and underpowered .
$ 9,995
" Only 400 or so of the first NeXT cubes were manufactured and sold , but Jobs stuck to his guns and said the technology was ahead of its time , " recalled Steven Vadislav , a NeXT cube owner .
" And I guess Jobs was right , because here the Cube comes again .
Back in '88 Jobs called his cube a workstation ; today 's G4 cube is being called a supercomputer . "
" The first Cube was n't exactly a real workstation , and the G4 Cube is n't exactly a supercomputer , either , " said Jeff Davies , a Mac network consultant in Manhattan . "
You expect a supercomputer to have a CPU a bit faster than 450 MHz , right ?
But it 's a great looking machine all the same , and I can n't wait to get my hands on it to try it out . "
Job 's NeXT Cube was meant to transform the PC business .
The machine also united Jobs with his then archrival , IBM , an enthusiastic supporter of NeXTSTEP software , the operating system powering the NeXT cubes .
Apple got NeXTSTEP software as part of a package deal when they rehired Jobs in 1998 .
The company has since quietly phased out support for many NeXTSTEP products .
" I guess Jobs just could n't let his baby go quietly into the night , " said Vadislav , who met Jobs around the time he bought his NeXT computer , and recalls that Jobs " sure was inordinately fond of that Cube design . "




Jobs Unveils the Mac Cube

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- The rumors were true .
Apple has a new small , sleek , and stackable " cube " desktop model that features removable innards and a G4 processor , which will be available exclusively at the Apple Store in early August .
The G4 Cube has a built-in Velocity Engine , allowing its 450 MHz G4 CPU to process over one billion calculations per second .
It comes with 64 MB of high-performance RAM , 1 MB of backside level 2 cache , a 20 GB Ultra ATA/66 hard disk drive , DVD-ROM drive with DVD-Video playback , and the ATI RAGE 128 Pro graphics card with 16 MB of graphics memory .
The Cube also features a new connectivity option , the Apple Desktop Connector which combines power , video , and USB signals onto a single cable .
ADC
In his MacWorld Expo keynote Wednesday morning , Steve Jobs also announced dual-processor G4 Macs , demonstrating a model with two 500 MHz CPUs running in tandem .
The new dual-processor G4 models come in two configurations , 450 MHz and 500 MHz processors .
There will also be a 400 MHz model with a single processor .
Each model will also feature gigabit Ethernet on the motherboard for fast networking and file transfers .
Prices for the new machines will remain the same as for current G4 Macs .
In a Photoshop " shootout , " the new Mac rendered an image in 61 seconds compared to the 124 seconds needed by a PC with a 1000 MHz Pentium III processor .
The dual-processor G4s , Jobs said , were deliverable " as of today . "
Four new iMacs were also introduced : an entry-level model priced at $ 799 with a 350 MHz processor , a digital video model 400 MHz with firewire ; an iMac DV-plus with a 450 MHz processor , and a " high-end " iMac with a 500 MHz CPU .
New iMac colors were also unveiled : Indigo , Ruby , Sage , and Snow .
Jobs also announced that public betas of OS X would be released in early September , with the final version to be released in early January 2001 .
Other software announcements included a " firm " October 2000 ship date for MS Office 2001 , which a Microsoft spokesman compared to the much-loved Word 5.1 in its Mac-centric interface .
" Who woulda thunk it ? "
Jobs said . "
The best version of Office and it 's on the Mac . "
Gamers were also comforted with the news that Microsoft would continue to support Macs , with a new company that will eventually port the entire line of Microsoft-owned Bungee games to the Mac platform .
Jobs kicked off his keynote by acknowledging that some people do n't like the company 's mouse : " Some people think it is the worst mouse in the world , " he said .
He proceeded to announce a new Mac mouse with optical tracking technology .
And , as expected , a new keyboard was announced as well .
Both products will be sold through the Apple Store only , for $ 59 dollars each , shipping in September .




Movie Studios on the Warpath

NEW YORK -- Hollywood escalated its attack on hackers Tuesday , arguing in court that 2600 magazine was complicit in promoting the piracy of DVDs .
" There are copies of decrypted DVDs being offered on the Internet and in hard copy , " said Leon Gold , an attorney representing eight movie studios in the trial that began this week .
In January , the companies sued 2600 for distributing the DVD descrambling DeCSS utility .
" Did you download the DeCSS executable from any of the sites 2600 linked you to ? "
Gold asked an industry witness .
" Yes , I did , " replied Robert Schumann , CEO of Cinea .
Schumann said he used DeCSS to penetrate the copy protection of the hit movie You 've Got Mail .
Cinea receives the bulk of its income from consulting contracts -- in this case , $ 325 an hour from the Motion Picture Association of America and its law firm , Proskauer Rose .
Schumann was the chief architect of DIVX , the company created to sell pay-per-view DVD technology , and lauded the failed scheme as " a convenience product for the consumer . "
He also attacked " newer and insidious file-sharing utilities " like FreeNet and Gnutella as additional threats to the future of the entertainment industry 's copyrighted works .
During cross-examination , an attorney for 2600 spent the better part of an hour trying to show that neither the MPAA nor its member companies had any evidence that DeCSS had been used by online pirates .
" Do you know of any DVD that has been sold anywhere in the world that has been decrypted with DeCSS ? " asked Martin Garbus .
" Not with absolute certainty , no , " Schumann replied .
He also said that he did n't know of anyone who distributed a DVD online that had been decrypted with DeCSS .
As Garbus kept pressing , U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan seemed to become irritated .
Kaplan compared the query to asking the CEO of Procter & Gamble for the name and addresses of babies that are using Pampers diapers , a task that might be difficult to perform even though the company sells millions of diapers a year .
" You are asking the Pampers question , " Kaplan said .
" I 'm absolutely not asking the Pampers question , " Garbus replied .
Kaplan was n't quite satisfied . "
There 's all sorts of evidence that there are postings on the Internet ... that people are out there offering to swap this stuff . "
Garbus also suggested that everyone in the industry knew that the CSS encoding system used to protect DVDs would be broken eventually , and should n't be surprised that it happened .
Also testifying Tuesday morning was Frank Stevenson , a Norwegian programmer who last fall published the first crypto analysis of the CSS algorithm .
" In an effort to hone my own cryptographic skills , I decided to take a look at CSS , " he testified . "
It did n't take me long to serious weaknesses . "
find
Other programmers , including Norwegian teen hacker Jon Johansen , used his work in creating DeCSS .
Johansen , who was in the courtroom with his father , was forced to leave after the judge determined he could be a potential witness and should be sequestered .
Johansen said he plans to return to Norway on Thursday , so he would have to take the witness stand Wednesday or Thursday morning .
After the lunch recess , with some prodding from the judge , both sides said they would stop squabbling and agree to speed up the trial .
" Plaintiffs are willing to stipulate that there is no direct evidence in which an identifiable person decrypted using DeCSS , " Kaplan said after a having a private chat with both teams of lawyers .
a DVD
That agreement could save the defense hours of laborious cross-examination .
The trial , which is expected to last weeks , will resume Wednesday morning .
Kaplan in January granted a preliminary injunction to the MPAA plaintiffs that prevented 2600 from distributing DeCSS , saying to do otherwise would result in " immediate harm " to the industry .




Sony Streams Follow Suit

Sony Music might be suing Michael Robertson over the creation of his company 's my.mp3.com service , but that does n't mean the music label does n't think it 's an idea good enough to emulate .
Sony 's latest move is part of the major label 's scramble to stay competitive in the brave new digital world .
Called the " Digital Locker , " Sony 's service will provide users with access to not only their music content , but other multimedia files as well .
" Digital Lockeroffers users the ability to remotely manage , manipulate , and access their digital media , " Sony said in documents obtained by Wired News .
The service , which has not been officially announced , is expected to be out during the 4th quarter .
The service will link Sony customers to online repositories that can include music , movies , videos , photographs , and video games from a variety of devices . "
By separating the media from the medium , Digital Locker aims to be your ubiquitous , networked Personal Digital Living Room , " the Sony document states .
According to sources , Sony is also actively recruiting employees from other music companies to work for the service .
" We 're currently in the development of a digital locker service , " a Sony Music spokeswoman said . "
We are also exploring other business opportunities . "
As part of its overall music play , Sony also announced its SonyStyle e-commerce site where consumers can purchase audio , video and PC products from its electronics division .
In January , MP3.com launched its my.mp3.com service which allows registered users to access music from the company 's database of MP3s .
The Recording Industry Association of America , of which Sony is a member , quickly filed suit against MP3.com , claiming the creation of that database infringed on the music industry 's copyrights .
AOL 's impending merger with Time Warner has preceded the recent rush of interest in online music sales from the labels .
The combination of Time Warner and AOL 's millions of subscribers with music labels Warner Music and EMI is prompting the labels to hasten their electronic distribution plans .
On the same day it settled its copyright infringement case with MP3.com , BMG announced an agreement with San Francisco startup MusicBank that will enable the users to stream music on demand from a personal music collection .
The service will allow music to be instantly " beamed " into a virtual storage locker from either online or offline retail stores .
MP3.com settled with BMG and Warner Music Group for around $ 20 million each .
So far , the other three labels have not settled with MP3.com , prompting more legal wrangling over damages .
Copyright law states that those damages fall between $ 750 and $ 30,000 per copyright infringement .
EMI , Sony Music and Universal are now asking the court to award $ 150,000 in damages per song , based on their belief that Robertson willfully committed copyright infringement when he created the my.mp3.com service .




Sega Crushes Dreamcast Pirates

SAN FRANCISCO -- Sega announced Thursday it had crushed more than 60 illegal websites and 125 auction sites flogging pirated versions of its Dreamcast games , until recently viewed as one of the most secure digital entertainment systems on the market .
" Sega supports a creative community of talented artists .
Pirates are parasites that hurt this community and will not be tolerated by Sega , " said Peter Moore , Sega of America Inc. 's president and chief operating officer .
" This is just the first step in an even bigger action the company will undertake to stop this problem .
We will continue to take aggressive steps to protect our business , consumers , and the creative talent we have at Sega . "
In attacking Dreamcast , the pirates were taking on what many industry analysts regarded as a Fort Knox of online intellectual properties -- equipped with far more complex protections than the relatively simple music , film , and video files targeted by controversial services like Napster and Scour .
Sega 's Dreamcast system features both internal copy protection and a proprietary " GD-ROM " compact disc capable of storing almost twice as much data as an ordinary disc .
But earlier this month a shadowy group of computer hackers dubbed " Utopia " announced it had managed not only to copy Dreamcast games on to normal CDs , but also had developed " boot disc " software which would trick Sega 's own hardware into playing the pirated versions .
Since then , several dozen Dreamcast titles have been released on the Internet and traded on underground networks such as Internet Relay Chat .
IRC
Sega said Thursday it was working closely with Yahoo , Lycos , Excite , eBay , and Amazon to shut down auctions of people attempting to sell illegal games and pirated " boot " disks .
Sega of America Inc. is a division of Sega Enterprises Ltd. of Japan .
Charles Bellfield , Sega 's director of communications , said the company 's drive against the Internet trade of pirated versions of Dreamcast marked one of the first times that the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 had been used to go after the web-hosting companies and ISPs used by pirate traders .
" We 've done the first level , which is cease-and-desist orders to auction companies and also to web-hosting companies .
If they do not comply then legal prosecutions will start , " Bellfield said .
" This is the first time this act has been used not just to stop piracy , but also physical sales over the Internet , " Bellfield said . "
It is the first time that web-hosting companies and Web auction sites are being held accountable for the contents of what is being sold . "
Doug Lowenstein , president of the Interactive Digital Software Association , said Sega 's attack on Internet copycats was an example of a new willingness to hit back at a pirate trade that cost the industry more than $ 3.2 billion in 1998 , the latest year for which figures are available .
" Piracy is one of the biggest business threats our industry faces , and Internet piracy is especially virulent , " he said .
Since noticing the first cracks in Dreamcast 's armor , Sega has stepped up work to close software loopholes , Bellfield said , adding that CD space limitations meant that only a handful of the company 's Dreamcast offerings were capable of being illegally copied .
" There are only certain games which they 've been able to pirate here .
They have n't been able to pirate all of our content , " Bellfield said . "
Looking ahead , both technical and legal measures will minimize the risk ... and Sega will be extremely aggressive against people who try any kind of piracy . "




The Net 's Achilles Heel

LONDON -- The complex structure of the Internet makes it resistant to errors or failure but is also its Achilles heel , scientists in the United States said Wednesday .
Because the system is so varied , if one or more nodes -- the crossroads through which Internet data travel -- go down , it has very little impact .
But researchers at Notre Dame University in Indiana , who have analyzed the connections within the Internet , have found that if the networks with the most-highly connected nodes were attacked by cyber-terrorists it could fragment the Web into isolated parts .
" The Achilles heel is that the structure has this double feature .
of the Internet
Like Achilles it is very hard to kill it , but if you know something about the system then you could , " Albert-Lazlo Barabasi , a structural physicist , said in a telephone interview .
An estimated 3 percent of nodes are down at an given time but no one notices because the system copes with it .
" The reason this is so is because there are a couple of very big nodes and all messages are going through them .
But if someone maliciously takes down the biggest nodes you can harm the system in incredible ways .
You can very easily destroy the function of the Internet , " he added .
Barabasi , whose research is published in the science journal Nature , compared the structure of the Internet to the airline network of the United States .
The majority of airports are small but they are all connected to much larger hubs -- cities such as Chicago , Atlanta , New York , and Los Angeles .
" That 's exactly the situation on the Internet : There are a couple of hubs that are crucial to the system , " he explained .
Those big hubs or nodes control the traffic in the system .
If the Internet hubs are taken out simultaneously , there would be a serious problem , but Barabasi said the probability of random errors hitting the big nodes was very small .
In a commentary on the research , Yuhai Tu of the IBM T.J. Watson Research Center in New York said the research was a first step toward understanding the robustness of the Internet .
" The good news is that we do not have to worry about random fluctuations of these networks .
The bad news is that Internet terrorists could cause great damage by targeting the most connected router , " he said .




Applause for IE 's Cookie Catcher

( Editor 's note : Wired News has posted a follow-up story that distinguishes between Microsoft 's cookie-catching plan and existing controls in Netscape 's browser .
See Who 's First on Cookie Features ?
. )
Microsoft made user privacy into a browser feature for the first time , and just about everyone -- even those who profit from gathering user information -- seemed pleased .
" Microsoft has started an important correction ...
its decision to make its Web browser stop and ask users before reporting data about them , " said Richard Smith , a prominent security expert who has exposed several Internet privacy bugs .
in
Microsoft announced Thursday it is developing a set of features for its Web browser to provide privacy controls for users .
Advocates like Smith , who have been warning of the dangers of the often-invisible user tracking that takes place on the Web , immediately applauded the move .
The additions for Microsoft 's Internet Explorer browser will describe cookies to the user and differentiate between first- and third-party cookies , Microsoft said .
The browser will then let the user refuse third-party cookies .
A cookie is placed on a user 's hard drive to identify that person upon subsequent visits .
Additional cookies are often simultaneously placed by a third , less-apparent party .
The most common third-party cookies are placed by the various companies that serve the banner ads that appear across many websites .
When a third-party cookie remains on a user 's hard drive , the enhanced version of Explorer will alert the user .
At that point , the user can decide whether to refuse the cookie .
A public beta of the enhancement , which will require Microsoft 's Internet Explorer 5.5 for Windows , is due by the end of August .
Privacy-oriented software products and services are already available -- from anonymizing and " pseudononymizing " services such as Zero Knowledge 's Freedom service .
Software programs like Guidescope let users turn off ads , while others enable users to control cookies .
But Thursday 's news was particularly notable because the company taking the action is Microsoft , which has the No. 1 browser on the market .
Chief operating officer Bob Herbold said that in researching the plan , Microsoft found that the use of third-party cookies , even though anonymous , was a matter of great consumer concern .
Consumers were primarily alarmed by the idea that a third-party ad-serving network was capable of tracking their movements across different sites .
The most omnipresent third-party cookies are those placed by Internet advertising networks , which manage the ads that appear at many websites .
Top companies in this business category include DoubleClick and Engage .
Those two companies offered tempered support for Microsoft 's decision .
They made statements that applauded the move but cautioned that the details of any such feature should not hurt anyone 's advertising-based business model .
DoubleClick , the biggest ad-serving network on the Web , deferred questions about the news to the Network Advertising Initiative , a coalition representing 90 percent of third-party Internet advertisers .
" The Network Advertising Initiative supports efforts to develop appropriate technology solutions to enhance user management over privacy preferences , " spokesman Jeff Connaughton replied in a statement .
NAI
He qualified the group 's enthusiasm for the concept , however , by cautioning that such features can not be " over-broad " -- " so as to hurt small- and medium-sized websites and undermine the Internet business model that allows websites to remain free . "
The NAI is working with the Federal Trade Commission and Commerce Department to come up with ideas for a " self-regulatory regime " for Internet privacy .
Some advocates , such as the Electronic Privacy Information Center , fear these discussions could lead to the FTC reversing its recent recommendation that laws are needed to establish baseline privacy standards on the Internet .
Microsoft 's Herbold said his company generally believes it is better to regulate privacy with technology features like the one Microsoft announced Thursday than to pass privacy legislation .
Like the NAI , ad-serving firm Engage issued a similarly tempered statement of support for Microsoft 's software plan .
" Our own efforts in this field have been ongoing for several years , but this represents an important first step for Microsoft and the Internet community in the evolution of the browser , " Engage CEO Paul Schaut said .
" We welcome the opportunity to participate in the process of testing , discussing , and ultimately determining the most appropriate technologies to provide consumers meaningful data protection while allowing the Internet to continue to grow and thrive as a free , advertiser-supported medium . "
Third-party cookie placement has been a hot target for electronic privacy advocates because it is a mechanism through which the third party may build a cookie-based profile of the sites a user visits .
DoubleClick came under fire last year when a planned acquisition would have made it possible for the company to identify Web users by name .
Privacy advocates like Smith questioned whether third-party cookie placement is even essential to the Internet advertising business model . "
Third-party cookies are actually not being used that much , and advertising companies can do very well with their current scheme , " Smith said .
Plans to use anonymous profiles based on third-party cookies are relatively new business plans among Net ad firms , he added . "
Engage just started putting their profiling system in the last six months or so , and DoubleClick will n't be doing it for at least a couple more months .
So these companies can still very much run an advertising network . "
Herbold said the plan to implement features to control these cookies met with some raised eyebrows when the company talked the plan over with Web companies .
Microsoft 's own MSN series of websites were among the services the company consulted as it plotted the software 's design .
Herbold said many websites agreed that a more comfortable Web user was a good thing for all parties .
Microsoft has previously stated plans to support the Platform for Privacy Preferences , a recently finalized specification that will let Internet software inform users when a website 's privacy policy does n't mesh with their personal privacy preferences .
P3P




Vegas Gets Green

LAS VEGAS , Nevada -- This Sunday , a five-day international conference on renewable energy will kick off at the Riveria Convention Center .
GlobeEx 2000 , which is expected to draw 700 delegates from more than 70 countries , claims to be the first truly integrated conference on energy in the Americas .
The event will showcase the latest advancements in renewable energy technologies , using a combination of workshops , technical presentations , expert panel discussions , keynote speakers , plenary sessions , a trade exhibition , and networking activities .
The conference will cover everything from the mall around the corner in a session on developing green retail markets , to outer space in a session on renewable energy technologies in the aerospace industry .
Innovative technologies and innovative financing strategies will also be covered .
U.S. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson will be the opening keynote speaker , while Vice President Al Gore is expected to close the conference on July 28 .
The director of renewable energy at the U.S. Department of Energy , Dan Reicher , will speak , as will Scott Sklar of the Solar Energy Industries Association , and Admiral Richard Truly , director of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory .
Delegates will hear from Christopher Flavin of the WorldWatch Institute , a Washington , D.C. research organization ; from Rick Counihan of the renewable energy provider GreenMountain.com ; and from Fred Mayes of the Department of Energy 's Renewable Information Team .
The future of oil and gas in a world of renewables will be addressed by Rene Ortiz , former minister of energy of Ecuador and a former secretary general of OPEC , the association of oil producing countries .
Clean coal technology will be addressed by General Richard Lawson , head of the U.S. National Mining Association .
Speaking about nuclear energy will be Kun Mo Chung , chairman of the International Nuclear Energy Academy and Atomic Energy Commissioner ; president of HoSeo University in Seoul , Korea ; and a former Korean Minister of Science and Technology .
The Las Vegas event will actually contain four distinct conferences :
Global Energy Exposition , the International Energy Conference on Alternative and Sustainable Technologies , will feature a trade exhibition .
Energex 2000 , the 8th annual forum of the International Energy Foundation , will feature over 200 technical papers and posters .
The 35th annual Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering Conference will provide technical paper presentations .
The Purchasing Green Energy Workshop for State and Local Governments is endorsed by the National Purchasing Institute and the National Association of Purchasing Managers .
Richard Bradshaw , a special assistant at the Department of Energy , will moderate a panel discussion on interagency policy barriers to commercialization of alternative energy .
DOE
Panelists will include high-ranking officials from the DOE , the U.S. Department of Agriculture , the Environmental Protection Agency , and the White House .
The group will discuss what missions and policies within each department are hindering alternative technology development and commercialization in the United States .
" All too frequently , companies developing new technologies for cleaner , sustainable energy products and more efficient use of energy , encounter obstacles in deploying , or commercializing these technologies due to federal laws , regulations , and policies that are uncoordinated and sometimes even in conflict , " explains Bradshaw . "
The effect is to scatter R&D efforts , complicate technology design , raise the risks of deployment , and slow market penetration . "
Delegates to GlobeEx 2000 can email questions in advance for possible inclusion in the discussions .
Several key international energy officials will attend the event , including Professor Godwin O.P. Obasi , Secretary-General of the World Meteorological Organization .
" With the influx of attendance from developing international energy corridors , the anticipation level of GlobeEx 2000 has elevated , " says conference director Suzanne Ulrich . "
Our association with the International Energy Foundations ENERGEX conference has boosted the international interest . "
Renewable technologies to be considered for their strengths and drawbacks include : solar photovoltaics , wind , biomass , geothermal , ocean thermal , active and passive solar , hydrogen , hydroelectric power , tidal power , and energy storage .
Marketing U.S. alternative energy technology to emerging markets will be a focus of the conference , and more than 1,000 energy professionals are expected to attend .
They will have access to 200 hours of technical presentations , and additional pre-event certification workshops in photovoltaics and finance .
GlobeEx 2000 is hosted by The Nevada Test Site Development Corporation and the International Energy Foundation .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS
All rights reserved .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Euro Penguins Fight Patents

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
The continent that invented patents is now fighting to keep its software patent-free .
EuroLinux Alliance for a Free Information Infrastructure is reporting that its " Petition for a Software Patent Free Europe " was signed by over 20,000 people .
Jrgen Siepman , attorney and legal adviser of Linux-Verband , a German association that represents numerous Linux companies , is accusing the European Patent Office of inventing its own rules in order to grant more software-related patents .
Siepman points out that more than 75 percent of the approved patents were filed by non-European companies .
European patent law is now defined by Article 52 of the Munich Convention , which specifically forbids patents on computer software .
But patents can be granted for software that is an integral part of a new machine , if the software &ndash; - such as an operating system -- controls the functions of that machine .
To a patent lawyer , that 's a mighty big loophole .
So the European Patent Office has recently granted more than 10,000 patents on a " method or device which includes programs . "
Pilch Hartmut of the EuroLinux Alliance argues that many of those patents were granted for what are actually generic computers , in order to actually patent the software contained on those machines .
The European Commission is also considering revising the law to allow software patents .
" Software patents are more than ever on the European Commission agenda , " Siepman said .
Siepman notes that most of the software patents that have been granted can not be enforced under the current laws in Europe .
But he says that under diplomatic pressures , the general directorate for internal market at the European Commission is now suggesting that the " self-invented practices " of the European Patent Office should be officially written into the European Law .
" This is very clever because it allows them to completely change the law without risking any open debate and pretend they did not do anything , " Siepman said
Philip Sargent , CEO of Metaweb , a Cambridge , England web-database development company , signed the petition .
Sargent feels there is " definite and widespread " hard evidence that software patents are used mostly as bargaining counters in takeover negotiations and in " bludgeoning smaller companies without large legal staffs . "
He believes that patents do not necessarily reward a company 's investment in developing new technology , and that key new software ideas might be better protected by " investing in it and making it work " instead of legally locking it up .
" Increasingly , we are seeing that most new key ideas the web , HTML , Linux , etcetera are provided free of patent restrictions and that this is both profitable and public-spirited . "
such as
Klaus Weidner of Munich 's WMP GmbH , another signer of the petition , agrees with Sargent .
He added that patents are " supposed to promote invention and progress , but software patents would have the opposite effect . "
Weidner believes that creating interoperability between programs requires either open standards or reverse-engineering of protocols or file formats .
He feels that access to , or alteration of , software coding would be prohibited by software patents , and that companies with a large market share would be able to stifle competition .
" In most cases , this would mean that large U.S. companies would dominate the European market , and any startup companies would be legally prevented from competing with them , " Weidner said . "
This would have disastrous results for the long term competitiveness of the European technology sector . "
The first documented patent was granted in Florence in 1421 to the architect and engineer Filippo Brunelleschi .
The idea of patents was formalized in 1623 by the British Parliament whose " Statute of Monopolies " gave the government the right to grant " letters patent " for new inventions .




Next Antitrust Target : Consumers ?

LONDON -- Cartels , monopolies , and other nasty threats to competition have traditionally been the province of large companies , but the Internet may now give consumers a measure of revenge .
Web technology gives buyers the chance to gang up for once on the people selling goods , but Joel Klein , Washington 's man who took on Microsoft , said on Wednesday he would be keeping an eye on them .
" Obviously you should n't have 90 percent of the buyers aggregated on a website .
If they are going to buy collectively , it 's going to raise some real issues , " the Justice Department antitrust chief told a lawyers ' conference in London .
Some websites -- like Letsbuyit.com in Europe -- offer ordinary consumers the chance to get together and use their combined buying power to push down prices .
But cartel worries center on industry trade -- mainly involving online exchanges where businesses club together to buy from suppliers -- where those with the most to gain may once again be big corporations .
One of the most powerful sites is Covisint , being developed by General Motors , Ford , and DaimlerChrysler , Detroit 's Big Three automakers .
They hope to cut costs by funnelling their $ 300 billion in combined parts spending through such a network .
Japanese and other European carmarkers have said they are interested , too , and if they join up , suppliers may be left with just one mega-customer which can call the shots as it pleases .
Klein told a meeting of the American Bar Association , holding its annual convention in London this year , that the issue was in its infancy .
" You 'll see some guidance coming out on buyer-side agreements , " he added .
Klein , whose department persuaded a district court to order Microsoft split in two to break up its monopoly power , said antitrust investigations would become an ever more important part of economic government .
He said globalization and technology had made the markets more powerful than people had anticipated , and predicted that telecoms , energy , aerospace , and other industries would inevitably be deregulated .
" It is almost inconceivable to think that top-down government regulation is possible in the 21st century , " he said . "
The only legitimate form of government intervention will be antitrust intervention . "
Klein also said cooperation with European Union competition authorities had improved markedly and he hailed their joint opposition to the recent planned $ 120 billion link-up of WorldCom and Sprint as an example .
" Mergers that create global issues ... will have to clear the U.S. and Europe , who control enough of the world market to block a merger , " he said . "
Ideally we should create one global antitrust authority , but it 's not going to happen . "




Attack on Spy Activist 's Site

A website that distributed secret documents from U.S. and Japanese intelligence agencies apparently is under siege in a denial-of-service attack .
The publisher of cryptome.org , which houses a massive archive of files related to spy agencies , recently started publishing a series of classified CIA documents and personnel files related to Japan 's Public Security Investigation Agency .
That resulted in a deluge of traffic to the site , which slowed the Web server , housed on a Verio network .
But what brought the struggling machine to its knees was what cryptome.org publisher John Young says is a denial-of-service attack .
" News reports on the CIA docs at first seemed to be the cause , but right now a couple of comp wizards are hot on the trail of a possible culprit which appears to have set in motion a DoS attack , " Young said in an email message .
The FBI contacted Young last Thursday and asked him to remove some of the documents .
He refused .
Wired News reported Young 's efforts on Friday .
The Associated Press and the Washington Post ran articles over the weekend , as did Matt Drudge 's drudgereport.com .
Also over the weekend , the apparent source of the documents -- who used an alias when sending them to Young and posting them to a Usenet newsgroup -- told Wired News he wanted his name to be made public .
" Please reveal my name .
My name is , as you presume , Hironari Noda .
I was arrested last year and now I have nothing to lose , " Noda wrote in an email message .
Noda is a former employee of the PSIA who was prosecuted and released on probation .
He has published a book titled CIA Spy Training : An Experience of One Agent of the PSIA .
The document Noda distributed appears to be a PSIA personnel file with over 400 names , birthdates , and titles , starting with Director General Hidenao Toyoshima .
The document 's title : " The Most Incompetent Intelligence Agency in the World . "
" There 's nothing wrong with me putting this stuff up in the U.S. , " says Young , who recently rankled editors at The New York Times when he posted a classified CIA document about the 1953 Iranian coup that the paper pulled from its own site . "
It 's not wrong or illegal . "
Young , a 64-year-old New York architect , has spent years amassing a vast collection of reports .
The collection , over 4,000 files about privacy , technology , and intelligence agencies , is probably the world 's most comprehensive public collection of its kind .
A week ago , Young added a document apparently classified as " secret " by the CIA -- and also prepared for Japanese officials -- that includes a fairly detailed overview of the U.S. intelligence community , including its budgets and personnel trends .
Its author is listed as Assistant CIA Director Charles Allen , who referred calls to a spokeswoman .
" We 're always concerned if classified information is made public , " a CIA spokeswoman told Wired News on Friday . "
That 's a serious matter .
...
Leaks of classified information are certainly of concern to this agency . "




Movie Industry Skewers Scour

The battle royal(ty) is on between the major copyright organizations and file-trading networks , as the Motion Picture Association of America filed suit on Thursday against Scour .
This suit aligns the MPAA with the Recording Industry Association of America , which participated in the joint announcement of the lawsuit against Scour .
The RIAA is currently involved in its own legal imbroglios with both file-trading networks , Napster and music service provider MP3.com .
While noting that each lawsuit has its own issues , MPAA president Jack Valenti said that scour.com knowingly facilitates the piracy of digital media -- including movies .
" This is very simple , " Valenti said . "
Scour is Napster with movies .
They are taking down that which does n't belong to them , and they are taking it down for free .
That 's why people like this .
The cost of goods sold is zero , nobody can compete with you .
This is a simple case of theft . "
Although specifics of the lawsuit are not yet available , the MPAA is expected to ask for statutory damages similar to the RIAA request in the MP3.com case .
Copyright law states that such statutory damages fall between $ 750 and $ 30,000 per copyright infringement .
And if Scour is found to have willfully violated copyright laws , damages can reach as high as $ 150,000 per violation .
The MPAA is also in the midst of litigation with 2600.com publisher Eric Corley .
In January , the copyright organization filed suit against the hacker newsletter for making available the DeCSS utility that removes the Content Scrambling System .
CSS
Later the organization tried to get an injunction to prevent the site from linking to other sites that posted the source code .
While the MPAA 's suit will not be connected with the recording industry 's legal fights , Valenti did seize on the opportunity to echo the sentiments of the RIAA .
In language that mirrors the recording industry 's response to the Napster issue , Valenti said the movie industry was not opposed to the technology offered at Scour , only its implementation .
" You can not remain inert and mute and stand on the sideline while people are stealing your product , " Valenti said . "
We can not sit by and allow this to go on .
But at the same time we are in the courtroom , we are in the laboratory with the smartest people on the Internet .
Our ultimate goal is to sell movies online . "
Defending the litigious behavior of the copyright organizations , RIAA senior executive vice president Cary Sherman said the actions were necessary in the new digital age .
He said both RIAA and the MPAA tried to contact Hollywood agent and Scour owner Michael Ovitz prior to the litigation without success .
RIAA also claimed that MP3.com failed to discuss a licensing agreement prior to their suit .
Valenti said Ovitz , who in June of 1999 acquired a majority stake in Scour , was a long-time friend .
In a written statement released by Scour , company president Dan Rodrigues said he had been meeting with recording and movie industries to avoid this type of litigation .
" We 're very surprised about this morning 's MPAA and RIAA lawsuit , given our productive conversations just this week with Sony , Warner and BMG regarding establishing business relations with these companies , " Rodrigues said . "
We also have a previously scheduled meeting with Universal .
Adding to the confusion caused by this action , Scour has already licensed content agreements from Miramax and Hollywood Records , both of whom are plaintiffs in the lawsuit . "
Said Sherman : " The cases are basically to insure everyone adheres to the rules of copyright apply online as well as they do offline .
These cases are allowing for the development of legitimate businesses online .
The notion that it would be a fair use to make a copy not just for himself but for ' sharing ' simply can not possibly be fair use . "




IBM 's Big Linux Push in Europe

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
IBM will invest more than $ 200 million to fund a series of new Linux initiatives across Europe and on the Internet .
The plan centers on the company 's new European Linux development centers located in Paris and Montpelier , France ; Budapest , Hungary ; England , and Germany .
IBM plans to staff the centers with software and server support specialists as well as stocking them with Linux-ready hardware and software .
The centers are intended to help European independent software vendors develop Linux-based applications and systems and to assist customers in making the transition to the Linux operating environment .
The company will also launch a Linux community portal to help developers and vendors obtain the systems , software , and technical skills available at the European centers .
The portal will offer hands-on workshops and technical support services to help Linux developers design and code applications for e-business , along with making Linux testing and performance tools available so developers can see how their applications handle " real " workloads .
The portal 's test and benchmarking offerings will include remote or onsite access to IBM software including DB2 , WebSphere , Lotus Domino , MQ Series , and IBM hardware including System 390 , RS/6000 , NUMA , AS/400 and Netfinity systems .
Support will be offered by IBM technical specialists .
" Part of our Linux strategy is to donate technology and resources to the community , " said Daniel Frye , director of IBM 's Linux Technology Center in Somers , N.Y. " Our virtual Linux Technology Center complements our physical efforts in Europe .
We are excited to work with the community to develop more Linux applications while simultaneously helping Linux mature . "
IBM will be aggressive about getting new Linux applications on Linux-ready servers into the marketplace during the second half of 2000 , said Mike Lawrie , general manager of IBM Europe , the Middle East , and Africa .
The centers will be open to all vendors .
Other technology partners , such as Intel , are also working with IBM in the development centers in an effort to ensure cross industry applicability of the emerging Linux applications , Lawrie said .
" Intel fully supports IBM 's initiative of working on applications that run on Linux to create the best e-business environment on Intel 's platforms , " said Sharad Gandhi , director of Internet Solutions Group , EMEA . "
We believe Linux OS will play an important role in the evolution of e-business .
Intel will implement this work in our own Solution Centers . "
IBM will also be working with Logix , who has secured exclusive distribution rights to Red Hat 's Enterprise products in France and Belgium , along with SuSE Linux AG , one of the world 's largest developers and distributors of the Linux operating system .
" The growing importance of Linux is in the mission-critical Web and database server space , " SuSE CTO Dirk Hohndel said . "
Here , scalable systems like IBM S/390 or IBM Netfinity clusters are a key requirement to make Linux run .
SuSE will work with IBM to make Linux available on all IBM servers . "




Hats Off to Blowfly Researchers

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- It just may spell the end of the world 's ugliest headgear : that staple of the Australian tourist shop regular , the cork-fringed hat .
For decades , the inelegant corks dangling from hat brims across the Outback have warded off Australian blowflies , but new research promises a genetic method to keep insect pests at bay .
Two researchers based at the Institute of Molecular BioSciences at New Zealand 's Massey University have developed a technique that kills female fruit flies in the laboratory .
Molecular geneticist Max Scott and postdoctoral researcher Jrg Heinrich believe the technique can transfer to other insect species , and in particular the Australian sheep blowfly .
The blowflies are an irritant to humans , but they can be fatal to sheep .
The blowflies lay their eggs on the sheep , then the maggots feed on the host .
" It 's a major problem , " says Lance Wiggins , from WoolPro , the industry group that has funded the Massey research .
The New Zealand work builds on a pest-eradication method called sterile insect technique .
U.S. scientists Edward Knipling and Ray Bushland developed the technique of sending sterile male insects out to mate with wild fertile females , ensuring a quick end to the lineage .
This technique has eradicated the screw worm fly from North America , the tsetse fly from Zanzibar , the melon fly from the Okinawa islands , the Queensland fruit fly from Western Australia and the Medfly from Mexico .
Up until now , sterile females have been released at the same time .
But Scott says if only male flies are released , the technique is more effective . "
You want the odds in your favor , " Scott says .
The sterile males are forced to find wild females to mate with ; the ensuing lack of offspring speeds the demise of the flies .
The New Zealand research , published this month in science journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , has focused on how to kill off females fruit flies . "
PNAS
The trick is devising a method for separating millions of male flies from female flies , " Scott says .
The researchers started with the fruit fly , drosophila . "
That 's the powerhouse for genetics , " Scott says . "
It 's easy to genetically manipulate . "
The scientists have modified the fruit flies so that a protein sensitive to tetracycline , called tTA , turns on a death gene in normal cells .
But only the females die , because tTA is made only in female fat tissue .
A control element from a female-specific yolk protein gene ensures female-only deaths .
The addition of small amounts of tetracycline to the food inhibits tTA , but if the female flies eat normal fly food , the death gene kicks in to kill essential fat cells .
yeast , sugar and cornmeal in an agar mix
Bingo : millions of dead female fruit flies .
The New Zealand study also found that female flies died only if they were fed a rich diet , containing a high level of yeast .
Diet , in addition to tetracycline , could be used to control female viability , Scott believes .
The interest in killing bugs is intense : a British research group has tackled the same problems from a different angle ; its work was published in Science earlier this year .
Fruit flies are just the first step for Scott 's team .
Killing off blowflies in a country that has 46 million sheep is a priority .
But the technique could be used to help eradicate many other insects . "
We think it will work in a variety of insects , " Scott said .




Privacy 's Yin and Yang

MONTEREY , California -- Astrophysics professor Gregory Benford says we 're in the early days of an escalating " arms race " between software that invades our privacy and software that tries protect us .
He should know : he fired one of the first shots .
The UC Irvine educator by day , science-fiction writer by night , told an audience of about 1,500 hackers at the O'Reilly Open Source Convention Thursday that he wrote and documented the first computer virus in the late 1960s on DARPANet , the government network that evolved into today 's Internet .
" It 's not something I brag about a lot publicly these days , " he said .
At the time , he predicted the rise of counter-agent software to combat viruses -- vaccines , if you will .
But , regrettably , Benford never moved on that vision .
" This is another story about how I lost $ 100 million in my spare time by not patenting any of this . "
As new strains of viruses and spam come our way in the increasingly connected future , programmers will have to devise filtering mechanisms that can safeguard us from harassment via our cellphones , handhelds and other wireless devices .
" The controversy you 're hearing about privacy will never be over because it is a matter of interrogation between independently operating agents , " Benford told the crowd of programmers , whom he called " the people that matter most " in this scenario .
The battle will extend to persistent and ubiquitous computing systems that will try to ascertain our interests and appease us . "
Lots of people want to know about you , " Benford said . "
How come ?
Because you spend money ? "
Benford described a scenario similar to marketing visions of the future , but with a dose of reality .
" Fifteen or 20 years from now ... you 're stopping off at some second-rate mall to pick up some shoes ... you walk toward the wall of the nearest building , and the wall starts talking to you , ' Hello , sir , welcome back , ' " Benford said .
The wall recalls your last visit , suggests a similar store to shop this time and displays a map showing your location , " like you 're an idiot . "
In this scenario , the wall , Benford said , will be picking up your shopping history through an EMID , even though you 're trying to deflect its pitch by emitting a false signal .
electromagnetic identification
In the future , most people will n't welcome being detected and pitched , Benford said .
Much like now .
That 's not the picture that electronics firms like Philips and Sony want us to imagine , he said .
To guard us from intrusions developed by one half of the world 's programmers , the other half will be working on devices that protect our privacy with smart environments that buffer us from the outside world .
These " smart butlers " will be part of the coming " comfy culture " .
As our environments coddle us more and more -- some with the alluring voice of Marilyn Monroe , others with the discreet reassuring tones of Anthony Hopkins 's butler from " Remains of the Day " -- the world beyond cities will hold less allure , Benford predicts .
" The natural world will be curiously dead , inert , not caring .
Notice that that 's an inversion of the standard American mythos . "
But a backlash is sure to come , as any biologist will tell you .
Benford sees it arising now in extreme sports and adventure travel , as protected citizens seek an adrenaline rush . "
The flip side of comfy culture is bungee-jumping . "
So how does Benford 's message apply to open-source programmers ?
" Every crazy thing you can imagine about the future will happen , and it will happen to people you know , " Benford said .
" And they will blame you for it .
That 's what it means to be a software writer . "
More than anything , Benford wanted the hackers to think about their role in a larger ecology .
" I think it 's a good thing for guys and gals like you who write the future into your code to think in terms not of strict short-term markets , but rather try to start to think biologically . "
However , Benford leveled his harshest criticism at one hacker who has done just that : Bill Joy .
or " Bill NoJoy , " as he called him
Benford criticized Joy for his Cassandra-like warning in Wired Magazine about the dangers of 21st-century technologies such as genetic engineering and nanotechnology ,
Benford called Joy 's musings " hopelessly amateurish . "
" He read a couple of books about robots and got alarmed .
We 've all done that . "
But conference host Tim O'Reilly challenged Benford on his attack , saying Joy " deserves a little more respect , " and credited Joy for getting people to think about the consequences of technology .
Benford acknowledged Joy 's contributions to computing , but said his essay ignored a lot of the current thinking that has already tackled these issues .
So what obligation do today 's hackers , many of whom were n't even born when Benford first let loose his virus , have when writing their code ?
" My feeling is that the one duty you really have is the expansion of human horizons , period . "
No matter how we plan for the future , Benford said , systems that surround our inventions are so complex that it 's impossible to predict outcomes .
By analogy , Benford reminded the programmers that one of the cliches of science-fiction shows -- like the first " Star Trek " -- is that in the future , everyone will wear Spandex .
But at the same time , Americans are getting fatter .
" Now think about these two trends together .
...
My point is that the future is really going to look different than you might think . "
David Sims is editorial director of the O'Reilly Network , a subsidiary of O'Reilly & Associates , which produced the Open Source Conference .




The Game Graphics Chip Race

The graphics chip race is proving almost as entertaining as the video games they accelerate .
Every six months companies are revising chips with the complexity of a Pentium III CPU , making it tough for consumers to figure out which video cards to buy before they become obsolete .
When comparing this season 's selections -- Nvidia 's GeForce2 and 3 Dfx ' Voodoo5 -- sometimes performance is n't everything .
GeForce2 may crank out the pixels quicker , but the better image rendering and game support of Voodoo5 gives it plenty to shout about .
What you see can be more important than how quickly you see it .
In many games , cards from ELSA and Creative that use the GeForce2 outpaced the Voodoo5 by a decent clip , but they did n't look anywhere near as good .
Tests show GeForce2 as the king of raw speed :
3 Dmark 2000 test scores
using MadOnion 's 3 DMark 2000 version 1.1
ELSA Gladiac : 4298 3 Dmarks
which uses the GeForce2 chip
Creative Labs Annihilator2 : 4182
GeForce2
Creative Labs Annihilator DDR : 3730
original GeForce
3 Dfx Voodoo5 5500 : 2774
Voodoo5
That 's not a good showing for Voodoo5 , which scored only 54 percent of ELSA GeForce2 's score .
Even Annihilator , which uses a six-month-old GeForce chipset , is 34 percent faster than Voodoo5 .
All benchmarks were run on a Pentium III-550 with 128 MB of RAM
Do these benchmark numbers mean people should avoid the Voodoo5 ?
Not really .
First off , the Voodoo5 is hardly a clunker when playing the latest shoot 'em ups .
In Quake 3 Arena , at 1024x768 pixels and 32-bit color , it clocks in at 50.5 frames per second .
The ELSA Gladiac scored 66.6 at the same settings .
That difference is barely perceptible to the human eye and it does n't impede game play .
In Unreal Tournament , the Voodoo5 has roughly the same performance at 1024x768 pixels as the Gladiac had in 1280x1024 resolution .
That 's hardly slumming it and , considering the fast pace of the game , you will n't notice a difference .
Second , to consider performance , such as raw frame rate , as the sole measure of a card 's value does n't make sense .
Equally important are compatibility with a broad variety of game titles and the visual quality of the rendering .
3 Dfx has quite a lead in terms of getting developers to write for its hardware -- just look at the box of some games at CompUSA and count up how many have the 3 Dfx logo on it as opposed to Nvidia 's logo .
Several games look absolutely gorgeous on the Voodoo5 , most notably Verant Interactive 's EverQuest and Blizzard Entertainment 's Diablo II .
The Voodoo5 appears to have a higher magnitude resolution than GeForce2 .
What was a clear , smooth texture , when using the Voodoo5 , became a block of pixels using the GeForce2 .
Unfortunately , in EverQuest you can see the seams in the textures and everything looks blocky .
Not only that , the brightness slider in EQ does not work with any Nvidia card , but it does work perfectly with the Voodoo cards .
Diablo II almost looks like a different game when using the Voodoo5 and its video driver , than it does when using the GeForce2 .
Even with game 's anti-aliasing option turned on , which should make the graphics much smoother , Diablo II was blocky and nowhere near as fine-grained or detailed when using the GeForce2 .
The bottom line in making a video card purchase is to consider what kind of games you like to play .
If you are playing a lot of first-person shooters or racing games , where there 's no time to stop and admire the pretty textures , then GeForce2 from Creative , ELSA , or other Nvidia licensees such as ASUSTek are your best option .
But 3 Dfx is a better option for graphically rich games such as Diablo , EQ , flight sims , and role-playing games .
Of course , you could see if the 3 Dfx or the Nvidia 's logo is on the box of your favorite games , and let that be your guide .




Are Airborne E-Devices a Danger ?

An airplane sits on a runway , its cabin chockablock with dot commers yammering on cellphones , product managers buffing up their PowerPoint spiels , children battling on interconnected GameBoys .
Everyone 's got a personal electronic device ; every device is on .
The airplane begins its takeoff taxi .
The Federal Aviation Administration has n't changed its mind about electronic devices -- it still says they might interfere with a plane 's instruments -- yet no one turns anything off .
If you were on that flight , would you want it to lift off ?
" Absolutely , " says Gerry Purdy , CEO of PortableLife.com , a self-styled portal for mobile-device users . "
Sure .
I certainly want to be on that plane . "
Purdy , as you might have guessed , is n't convinced that personal electronic devices do a dang thing to a plane 's instruments , and now he 's posted a column at PortableLife.com challenging the FAA to either pony up the proof that the devices cause problems or drop the ban .
For those who have n't flown in a while , the FAA bans the use of cellphones or any other sort of transmitting device for the duration of a flight , and bans the use of all other electronic gadgets when the plane is below 10,000 feet .
" The rules are set , but they do n't seem to be backed up by any science , " Purdy said .
Not so , says the FAA .
A 1996 test conducted for the agency by an organization called the RTCA found that some electronic devices can interfere with onboard instruments like the altimeter .
" That 's something you do n't want to have happen , " said FAA spokeswoman Alison Duquette .
Still , Purdy maintains that independent researchers have had a hard time replicating the RTCA 's results .
While researchers continue to cite the possibility that electronic devices might cause instrument readings to go wacky , no one has proven that they do , Duquette said .
As far as the FAA 's concerned , research that finds even the possibility of interference is strong enough to justify continuing the ban .
" We see the threat as very real , and until we see otherwise , we 're not about to lift it , " Duquette said .




Priceline.com Losses Narrow

Priceline.com Inc. , the Internet commerce firm that allows customers to shop by price for products from airline tickets to groceries , said its second-quarter loss narrowed as revenue more than tripled and more customers placed repeat offers .
PCLN
While Priceline beat Wall Street 's consensus earnings forecasts by 2 cents per share , its shares plunged by 10 percent in early Nasdaq trading on concerns over profitability and disappointment that the quarter was not enough of a " blowout , " analysts said .
" A 2-cent surprise is no longer considered spectacular , " said Gene Alvarez , analyst at META Group . "
There are still clamorings out there in terms of worrying about profitability , and I think that 's causing the drop right now in the confidence of the stock . "
Norwalk , Conn.-based Priceline said it was closing in on profitability but gave no indication of how soon .
Priceline shares were down 11.4 percent at $ 35.50 in late-morning Nasdaq trading .
Priceline said its loss , excluding certain items , narrowed to $ 1.6 million , or 1 cent per share , from a loss of $ 13.9 million , or a loss of 10 cents , in the year-earlier quarter .
Both quarters ' results excluded $ 381,000 in noncash supplier warrant charges , and this year 's loss excluded $ 2.5 million in option payroll taxes .
Wall Street analysts had been expecting Priceline to report a loss of 3 cents per share , according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial , which compiles analysts ' estimates .
Second-quarter revenue more than tripled to $ 352.1 million from $ 111.6 million .
The company said it had added 1.5 million new customers in the quarter , bringing its customer base to 6.8 million .
Including one-time items , Priceline reported a loss of $ 11.7 million , or 7 cents per share , compared with a loss of $ 14.3 million , or 10 cents per share .
Priceline , which began selling " name-your-own-price " airline tickets over the Internet in April 1998 , said it expects to become profitable soon .
" We believe we are rounding the final turn and are on the homestretch toward profitability , " said Daniel Schulman , president and chief executive officer .
" We continue to attract record new customers , but even more importantly , our loyalty among existing customers is accelerating , " Schulman said , adding that the customer " repeat rate " rose to 39 percent , from 26 percent a year ago .
The company said its second-quarter gross profit of $ 55.2 million was five times higher than its year-earlier gross profit of $ 10.9 million .
Priceline shares have fallen by more than 60 percent in the past year on investor worries over the long-term viability and profitability of dot-com companies .
" The results were solid , above expectations , but I think there are some concerns that it was not a blowout quarter , " said Anthony Noto , analyst at Goldman Sachs .
Noto said that Priceline shares had traded up in anticipation of the results and that some investors were now taking profits .
Noto said he expects Priceline to become profitable by the fourth quarter .
He said he is impressed that " revenue per unique offer " has doubled to $ 142 from a year ago .
Priceline claims that its business model -- which gathers guaranteed demand from buyers and then shops around for a seller at the desired price -- is unique .
The company , whose catchy ad campaign features actor William Shatner , also cites independent research to argue that it is the most widely recognized e-commerce brand in the United States , along with Amazon.com .




Who 's First on Cookie Features ?

Does Microsoft get credit for a " privacy first " with its new feature for blocking privacy-invasive third-party cookies ?
That depends on how you interpret the rules of the game .
Microsoft is planning to give users explicit notice of what third-party cookie planting is going on behind the scenes as they browse from site to site -- a feature Microsoft 's Bob Herbold characterized as the first of its kind Thursday .
But users of Netscape point out that the feature has been offered for years -- and Netscape itself was quick to join the chorus .
" I 'm not really sure there 's semantics , " said Netscape spokesman Andrew Weinstein . "
a matter of
Netscape 's had that built in for years -- since all the 4.x versions . "
A closer look at the implementation of cookie management -- and more importantly , user notice -- shows that selecting one or the other feature as a privacy first is a question of what 's more important : a feature 's existence or the subtle differences in its implementation .
" First is too strong a word -- I think it 's just a general trend among the browser guys , " said Richard Smith , who has exposed several Internet privacy bugs .
Netscape 6 has features that affect privacy -- " but not this prompting thing , " he said .
Netscape browser preferences provide the user with options to block all cookies , accept all cookies or reject only third-party cookies .
And with any one of those three options you can also choose to check the box that says " let me know when someone is trying to cookie my computer , " Weinstein said .
But Microsoft is promising to do more than notify users when a cookie is placed .
In its cookie-blocking dialogue box , it will explain to users more about what that cookie-placement means .
Microsoft 's example screenshot for the not-yet-final feature suggests the dialogue box will be more forthcoming -- if still discreet -- about the tracking capability of third-party cookies .
" Ad.doubleclick.net , a different website than you are currently visiting , would like to read a small file on your computer , " the sample message from Microsoft reads . "
called a cookie
The cookie stores information about your website visits . "
for example , to provide targeted ads to you
Offering a button for more information on the subject , the dialogue box then lets the user reject the cookie .
In contrast , a third-party cookie notice produced when Netscape 6 was used to browse Wired News said only , " mediaplex.com wants to set a cookie .
a third party
Do you want to allow it ? "
The Microsoft message is likely to better inform confused users who need to make decisions that can affect their privacy .
" Microsoft deserves credit for putting up the prompt and basically giving users better notice about the issue , " Smith said .
He also pointed out that lesser-used alternative browsers like Opera 4 block third-party cookies by default .
" You could certainly say is the first privacy alert -- as opposed to a security alert , " Junkbusters privacy advocate Jason Catlett said . "
Microsoft 's feature
But in the past Netscape has had far better cookie-management features than IE , and they 've certainly been privacy management features . "




Napster 's File-Trading No More

SAN FRANCISCO -- Napster , the controversial file-sharing service that has been the scourge of the music industry since it was launched late last year , has been reduced to a chat room .
In a scathing decision Wednesday afternoon , U.S. District Court Judge Marilyn Patel granted the recording industry a temporary injunction to pull the file-trading portion of its service , effective Friday at 12 a.m. PDT .
In a lengthy statement , the judge said the recording industry had shown it would likely win a trial , while the defendants had failed to prove the software had substantial , non-infringing uses .
She even cited Napster executives for downloading copyrighted music onto their hard drives .
" The significant use of this service is obviously trading copyrighted material without obtaining copyright holders ' permission , " Patel said .
The RIAA originally filed the lawsuit against Napster in December , on the grounds that the Napster application had created a safe haven for Internet music piracy .
Napster attorney David Boies said he would appeal Patel 's ruling .
Making Napster unavailable to its 20 million users brings the recording industry one step closer to closing down the controversial company , which created the application .
During his testimony , RIAA attorney Russ Frackman asked the court to enjoin the Napster service , claiming that " before the trial was finished , the service would have 75 million users , " a user base that would irreparably harm the industry and drive down CD sales .
Frackman said that while Napster has introduced evidence that CD sales may currently be up , that does n't address the rights that copyright holders have .
" I think that their evidence is completely irrelevant to the case , " he said . "
You can n't take copyrighted materials and argue that some of the people , some of the time , can take those materials and use them for the betterment of copyright holders . "




A New Gene-eration of Bio Grads

When Kirsti Scheer earned her biology degree three years ago , she did n't see much opportunity besides entering medical school or selling pharmaceuticals -- neither of which appealed to her .
" When I got out of school I really wanted to get into the high-tech side of science and research , " the 24-year-old Seattle native said .
After graduating , Scheer worked as a researcher at several biotechnology companies , but she felt she needed further training to move on to more interactive work -- like managing clinical trials and working directly with patients and clients .
" If you only have the training in the sciences without the management and technology background , then I think it 's really hard to succeed in biotech , " Scheer said . "
That is what drew me to Keck . "
The newly formed Keck Graduate Institute in Claremont , California , is designed to prepare students for the bioscience industry , combining elements of different scientific disciplines with technology and management skills .
The school -- part of the highly acclaimed Claremont Colleges -- will open its doors on Aug. 1 .
" We 're focusing on solving real problems rather than trying to figure out how nature works , " said David Galas , the chief academic officer for the school .
While work such as the Human Genome Project has propelled scientific discovery over the past several years , " the thought was that the bioscience industries were not being very well served by the higher education community , " said Keck President Henry Riggs , the former president of Harvey Mudd College .
Keck hopes to fill that niche by offering a two-year master 's program in bioscience .
Administrators hope the degree will earn recognition similar to an MBA or JD .
The first class of 28 students will receive their two-year education tuition-free , which will normally cost $ 27,800 .
The school was funded by a grant from the W.M. Keck Foundation , which also helped fund the world 's largest telescopes in Hawaii .
Scientists and students alike believe the school is filling a void .
Richard Gibbs , director of the human genome sequencing center at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston , called the program a " quick response " to industry needs .
Still , he added , " we needed it five years ago . "
" This seems to be the next wave of where biology is going : the convergence of biology and industry , " said Steve Yoo , one of the new students . "
They are taking cues from the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and designing the curriculum around that . "
Added fellow student Jeff Graybill : " I think that the whole face of medicine will drastically change in the next 20 years or so .
It 's exciting to be involved in a field that 's going to do that . "
Incoming Keck students have undergraduate degrees in biology , engineering , or computer science from such schools as UCLA , Princeton , and MIT .
School administrators say they will emphasize group work in the computational biology , biological systems , bioengineering , and drug development curriculum .
" The program is meant to replicate the way the bioscience industry works , " Keck Admissions Director John Friesman said .
For example , students will learn how a drug is developed -- from discovery to product launch .
Keck students will find internships between their first and second years .
Instead of a thesis , students will complete a group masters project during their second year .
Throughout the program , students will analyze case studies and take seminars in management , ethics , and public policy .
" We 've constructed a curriculum which tries to break down barriers between different scientific disciplines , " Galas said . " also trying to break down barriers of the technical and non-technical side . "
We 're
" It seems to be a particularly well-rounded program , " Baylor 's Gibbs said . "
We would love to employ graduates of this place . "
" We do n't have enough of these people around , " he added .
well-rounded
The school will eventually build its student numbers to 125 , and plans to include a PhD program in the future .
Keck is the latest graduate institute to focus on the biosciences .
The Northwestern University Center for Biotechnology , and the University of Pennsylvania also offer a master 's in biotechnology .




FBI Gives a Little on Carnivore

WASHINGTON -- The FBI says it will conduct a privacy audit of a controversial surveillance system , but the agency will n't release key information about how Carnivore works .
On Monday , FBI officials told a congressional panel that they hope to assuage the fears of civil libertarians through " an independent verification and validation " of the Carnivore eavesdropping system .
" What we 're going to do is very akin to what , for example , NASA does with software developed for their launch operations , " said Donald Kerr , director of the FBI Labs . "
Ask some independent party to verify that the software we have , and deploy , will in fact do those things that we say it will , and not provide capabilities that we should not have . "
But the FBI flatly refused to release the source code to Carnivore , a move that would allow programmers to review the program to see if its appetite needs to be curbed .
" We would have a problem with full open disclosure , because that , in fact , would allow anyone who chose to develop techniques to spoof what we do an easy opportunity to figure out how to do that , " Kerr told a House Judiciary subcommittee .
Because Carnivore chews up all the information flowing through part of an Internet provider 's network -- and reportedly digests only data relevant to an investigation -- critics have called for more details about its operation .
" This notion of opening up the code I think is a very good one , " said Alan Davidson , staff counsel at the Center for Democracy and Technology . "
I think if there needs to be a preliminary step of getting an independent panel in here , that 's not the same and it would n't be as good as opening it up to the public . "
The American Civil Liberties Union has filed a freedom of information act request for the source code , and some prominent cryptographers also have asked for its release .
During the hearing , some House Republicans questioned the Clinton administration 's commitment to privacy .
" I have heard all sorts of assurances that this will n't fall in the wrong hands , that there are safeguards , " said Rep. Spencer Bachus . "
R-Alabama
Well , today there are safeguards on FBI files , only certain people have access to those files . "
" Yet a few years ago , we found out that 1,000 of those files were over at the White House , " Bachus said .
Rep. Bob Barr pointed to the continuing flap over the White House email messages that seemed to disappear after being subpoenaed .
R-Georgia
" We 've been having a series of hearings , the conclusion of which from the Clinton administration standpoint is , we do n't even know how to keep track of our own emails , " Barr said . "
And now we have a very sophisticated system for tracking other people 's emails . "
" The FBI 's Carnivore program represents a dangerous and unprecedented invasion of online privacy , " said Rep. J.C. Watts , chairman of the House Republican Conference , in a statement . "
R-Okla .
Despite repeated inquiries , the Clinton-Gore administration continues to offer only vague responses and little enlightenment . "
A top Justice Department official promised that the privacy audit would prove reassuring .
" A report generated from the review will be publicly disseminated to interested groups within industry , academia , and elsewhere , and should alleviate any concerns regarding unjustified intrusions on privacy from the use of this tool , " said Kevin DiGregory , deputy associate attorney general .
The FBI describes Carnivore as a " well-focused " system that has been used in only a small number of cases : 16 this year , including six criminal and 10 national security investigations .
Each case , however , could involve dozens of wiretaps .
The FBI did n't offer details .
Although Carnivore has been described as an email surveillance system , the FBI said it could also intercept files that were transfered . "
We have , in at least one case , been able to intercept using a different protocol , file transfer protocol , but with relatively small files , " Kerr said .
The FBI also said state and local police do not currently have access to Carnivore .
Internet service providers do not have to install the Carnivore system and have the option to perform their own secret surveillance of users , the FBI said .
" We have found that at times the Internet service provider has been unable or even unwilling to supply this information , " DiGregory said . "
It is for that narrow set of circumstances that the FBI designed Carnivore .
Law enforcement can not abdicate its responsibility to protect public safety simply because technology has changed . "
But an attorney representing one ISP said the FBI insisted on installing Carnivore .
" In this case , the solution that the ISP put in place did get all of the incoming email addresses , and it did supply a smaller number of outgoing email addresses to the government , " said Robert Corn-Revere , a partner at Hogan and Hartson .
" The U.S. marshals were dissatisfied with that solution and informed the ISP that they were coming to install Carnivore within two days , " Corn-Revere said .
He did not identify which ISP he represents , but some legislators suggested it was Earthlink .




Tech Earnings Arrive on Time

A bunch of big Internet and technology companies reported their latest quarterly earnings Tuesday afternoon , with the majority doing as well or better than Wall Street analysts had predicted .
Canadian telecom giant Nortel Networks reported a steep rise in profits fueled by strong demand for fiber-optic equipment .
Compaq computer came in more or less as expected , with earnings substantially improved compared to the same period last year .
And eBay reported a rise in profits and revenue .
Others reporting Tuesday included Ameritrade and BMC Software .
The afternoon results came in after AT&T got the morning off to a good start , reporting a rise in quarterly profit linked to increased corporate and wireless sales .
Market-dampening fears hovered around Amazon.com , however , which is slated to release quarterly earnings Wednesday , a day after its president stepped down to take a post at VerticalNet .
---
Nice numbers for Nortel : Nortel Networks said on Tuesday that unabated demand for fiber-optic equipment helped lift second-quarter earnings 28.5 percent above market expectations .
NT
Nortel , which also boosted sales and profit forecasts for 2000 and 2001 , said that its second-quarter profit from operations , excluding one-time charges , rose to $ 561 million , or 18 cents a share , from $ 320 million , or 11 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter .
" We 're feeling pretty good .
Revenue 's up 48 percent -- that 's two quarters in a row now -- so we 've got as much revenue at the half now as had a couple of years ago for a whole year , " Nortel chief executive John Roth told Reuters .
Roth also said he is confident Nortel will record sales of " something in excess of $ 10 billion " from its fiber-optic systems in 2000 , up from a previous projection of up to $ 10 billion .
Optical sales in the quarter grew 150 percent over last year , while wireless revenue rose 18 percent and Internet equipment gained 80 percent .
The average estimate of 29 brokers polled by First Call/Thomson Financial was a profit of 14 cents a share .
The consensus of 30 brokers surveyed by IBES forecasting service was for 14 cents .
Including acquisition costs , Nortel reported a net loss of $ 745 million , or 26 cents a share , compared with a net loss of $ 258 million , or 10 cents a share , last year .
Second-quarter revenues grew 48 percent to $ 7.8 billion from $ 5.3 billion last year .
The company said it expects sales to grow in the low 40 percent range in 2000 , up from a previous estimate of 30-35 percent , and earnings per share from operations to grow in the high 30 percent range .
---
Compaq performance improves : Compaq Computer Corp. , the largest U.S. PC maker , reported an increase in profits in its latest quarter , more or less in line with Wall Street expectations .
CPQ
On Tuesday , the company reported a profit of $ 387 million , or 22 cents per share , in the three month period ending June 30 .
The results marked a substantial improvement from the same period last year , when Compaq had a loss of $ 184 million , or 10 cents a share .
Tuesday 's results barely exceeded the forecasts of Wall Street analysts , who on average had expected the company to earn 21 cents per share , according to First Call/Thomson Financial
Compaq reported worldwide revenue of $ 10.1 billion for the quarter ended June 30 , 2000 , compared with $ 9.4 billion in the same period last year .
---
EBay earnings edge upward : EBay reported a substantial jump in second-quarter profits Tuesday , as the number of auctions hosted on its site continued to rapidly rise .
EBAY
The company reported a profit of $ 11.6 million , or 4 cents a share , up from $ 5.1 million , or 2 cents a share , in the same period last year .
EBay said it would have earned $ 13.2 million , had it not been for some stock-related transactions .
Analysts surveyed by First Call had expected the company to earn 3 cents a share .
EBay said its revenue increased to $ 97.4 million in the three-month period ending June 30 , up from $ 49.5 million in the same period last year .
---
BMC profits lag : Recent earnings for BMC Software were down substantially compared to the same period last year , a lag company executives attributed to " many unforseeable market factors . "
On Tuesday , the company reported a profit of $ 49.9 million for the three months ending June 30 , down 50 percent compared to last year 's figures for the quarter .
At the same time , revenue came in at $ 372 million , down 7 percent from the same period last year , when the company reported $ 400.7 million in revenue .
" The first quarter of our fiscal 2001 presented the company with many unforeseeable market factors that negatively impacted us and all other independent software vendors with significant mainframe business , " said Max Watson , chairman , president and CEO of BMC Software , in a statement accompanying the earnings announcement . "
Nevertheless , BMC Software remains a profitable company focused on solving complex customer problems with industry leading solutions . "
---
Ameritrade profit drop smaller than forecast : Ameritrade Holding , the No. 5 U.S. Internet brokerage , Tuesday reported a decline in quarterly profits because of spending on its Web-based personal finance unit , but the results still breezed past Wall Street expectations and company officials offered a rosy earnings outlook for next year .
AMTD
The Omaha , Nebraska company , which has more than 1 million customers , reported net income of $ 4.6 million , or 3 cents per share , in its fiscal third quarter ended June 30 .
That was down 48 percent from a profit of $ 8.9 million , or 5 cents a share , in the same period last year .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Intel Gets Off the Rambus

Intel , the world 's No. 1 computer chipmaker , said Wednesday that it was designing a chipset for its upcoming Pentium 4 processors that would support new types of memory technology , ending its exclusive supply relationship with Rambus Inc.
Rambus 's stock dropped 11-1/4 , or more than 13 percent , to 73-3/4 as one of the most heavily traded issues on the Nasdaq stock market in morning trading .
RBMS
More than 7.3 million shares had changed hands by 11:30 EDT , about 90 percent of the stock 's average daily volume .
" Over time , we plan to produce another chipset that will go along with Pentium 4 that will allow for additional platforms ... to help give our customers more choice in pricing , " Intel spokesman Michael Sullivan said .
A Rambus spokesman acknowledged Intel 's decision , but said it still is the principal memory-design provider for Intel 's chipsets .
" We have always known that Intel continuously evaluates the performance of various types of memory and considers the availability of each one , " said Avo Kanadjian , vice president of worldwide marketing at Rambus .
The prices of Rambus-based designs , called RDRAM , are dropping , which should grow the technology 's market share , Kanadjian said .
Rambus dynamic random access memory
Intel also still considers RDRAM as its " primary road map " for memory technology , Sullivan said .
The first line of Intel 's Pentium 4 is scheduled to go on sale later this year , with the chipset that supports non-Rambus memory slated for release in 2001 , Sullivan said .
Kanadjian declined to comment on the drop in Rambus 's share price , saying the company did not comment on market activity .
Intel shares , too , were off amid broad weakness in the semiconductor sector .
Intel was down 3-3/16 at 137-11/16 .
INTL
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor index , meanwhile , was off more than 7 percent .




E-Tail Fiddles While States Burn

Untaxed Internet sales could cost state and local governments up to $ 3.8 billion in lost tax revenue this year and more than $ 12 billion a year by 2003 , according to a report published Tuesday by the Government Accounting Office .
Or they could cost states as little as $ 300 million this year and $ 1 billion in 2003 .
It all depends on assumptions you make about Net sales data , the growth of Net sales , and the state 's ability to collect taxes on those sales based on existing laws , the GAO said .
" There is tremendous uncertainty about all of the major determinants of the tax loss , " wrote James White , the GAO 's director of tax policy , in a letter to Sen. George Voinovich , who requested the study .
R-Ohio
In most cases , Net retailers are n't obligated to pay state taxes on their sales unless they have an office or other physical presence in that state .
Many local officials have expressed concern that they 'll lose tax money for schools , roads , and other civic needs if Net companies are allowed to skirt local taxes .
The GAO report attempted to quantify exactly what those losses might be , but had difficulty because there 's no hard data on the amount of Net sales , the growth of Net sales , or the extent to which Net sales are currently taxed .
To compile its figures , the GAO gathered all the previously published estimates of potential tax losses -- including studies by Forrester Research , Jupiter Research , and Ernst & Young -- threw in additional sales and tax figures from the Department of Commerce , and crunched the numbers .
It used both high-end and low-end estimates for all pertinent figures to create a range of possible tax losses .
The study found that big states like Texas and California might each lose more than $ 300 million in tax revenue this year alone , based on high-end Net sales estimates , or as little as $ 23 million to $ 26 million .
The study , concludes White , serves to " highlight the importance of efforts to get better data about the determinants of the tax loss .
Current economic data are not well-suited to tracking rapidly evolving Internet activity . "
One thing 's clear though , said the report .
States are indeed losing money , and somebody 's going to have to figure a way to deal with it .
" Continued growth in Internet sales is likely to present major compliance challenges for sales and use tax administrators -- to the extent that some have questioned the long-term viability of such taxes , " White wrote .




Anti-Fraud That 's Anti-Consumer

When Kendall Dawson heard about PayPal , a wildly popular new service that lets surfers send money via email , he thought it would be a great way to pay for items on eBay , so he signed up .
Or rather , tried to sign up .
But each time he typed his credit card number into PayPal 's website , it returned a message saying the card could n't be confirmed and to contact the credit card company .
A check with the card company showed no problem with the card .
After weeks , repeated queries to PayPal , and repeated replies that the problem was on his end , Dawson finally received a short email reply that revealed the real reason his card would n't go through .
PayPal 's fraud screening system -- run by a company called CyberSource , which collects and analyzes data from more than 2,000 other Web merchants , including Amazon.com and Buy.com -- had flagged his card as a fraud risk .
Dawson was first annoyed , then perplexed : " All my credit cards are in good standing , " he said . "
I have never once been late with a payment . "
Now he wants to know exactly why his card was rejected , claiming that he should be able to see his online credit profile , just as a person denied a mortgage loan can request to see his credit report .
As of Friday afternoon , PayPal had not responded to Dawson 's requests .
" I 'm really curious what kind of ' score ' is required , and how they 're determining this profile , " said Dawson . "
Nowhere on their site did I see any mention of this . "
Merchants , of course , have the right to refuse to do business with someone without explanation , and PayPal is in no way analogous to a mortgage lender .
But the database PayPal uses is n't PayPal 's alone -- it 's shared with more than 2,000 other Web merchants , and therefore holds significant sway over a customer 's ability to buy online .
Erroneous data could prohibit a customer from purchasing across a vast swath of websites .
CyberSource 's database includes the purchase history of all cards used across all of its client sites .
The company analyzes each new purchase request against the database , running it through a complex series of algorithms that ultimately spit out a single number between 0-99 .
The higher the number , the higher the likelihood that the requested transaction is fraudulent , according to CyberSource .
Red flags include sudden spending binges , purchases coming from multiple IP addresses , or purchases coming from IP addresses that have been involved in previous fraudulent transactions .
Individual client companies then choose what number they consider too risky , and reject any transaction that scores above that .
Online companies , not the card holder , are financially liable for all bogus charges .
CyberSource says it favors full disclosure of its profiles . "
We 're happy to disclose any history , " said William Donahoo , CyberSource 's VP of marketing . "
But we do request that they contact the merchant first . "
CyberSource said it delivers the profile information to the merchant , who will in theory share it with the customer .
Problem is , not all merchants seem ready to follow-up on their end , concerned that they 'll be giving out information that might help potential fraudsters beat the system .
Amazon.com , for instance , said it will n't let customers see their profiles . "
We do n't disclose that information , " said spokeswoman Patti Smith . "
We simply notify the customer that their card has been rejected , and then it 's up to them to contact the card provider or lending institution . "




Amazon Exec Quits , Stock Falls

Shares of Amazon.com plunged more than 10 percent Tuesday after a news wire service reported that the company 's president will resign .
Later , the e-tailer confirmed that Joseph Galli has resigned to become the president and chief executive of VerticalNet Inc.
" I believe he is making the right decision for him and his family circumstances , " said Amazon founder and Chief Executive Jeff Bezos , who will continue as chief executive and resume the duties of president . "
We all wish him the very best . "
Amazon shares were down 3-5/8 at 35-1/8 , the day before it reports second-quarter results .
VerticalNet shares were up 2 at 58-3/4 .
Galli succeeds Mark Walsh , who has been appointed chairman at VerticalNet , which creates industry-specific online marketplaces .
Michael Hagan , a co-founder of VerticalNet , will continue as chief operating officer .
As president and CEO of VerticalNet , former Black & Decker Corp. executive Galli will be charged with overseeing the company 's global growth plans , while Walsh will be responsible for VerticalNet 's overall strategy .
Galli 's departure is the latest in a string of less than favorable news for Amazon .
Last month , the company 's shares plunged more than 20 percent after two prominent analysts made less-than-enthusiastic comments about the company 's earnings prospects , and a third analyst questioned Amazon 's ability to pay off its enormous debts .
Galli has worked at Amazon just slightly more than a year .




Disney ' Goes ' to Open Source

Entertainment-portal Go.com is the latest commercial venture to join the open source movement with a code the company says fills a programming hole left by Microsoft and Sun .
Go.com , a Walt Disney company , recently released its Tea template language along with tools used for website creation .
Tea is a Java-based language that separates the data layer from the presentation layer of Web content .
Go.com created Tea because the numerous news sites in the Disney family -- Infoseek , ABCNews.com , ESPN.com , and Go.com -- often use the same news stories , but each has its own presentation style , so the layout has to be kept separate from the actual content .
The alternative technologies , Java Server Pages for Java or Microsoft 's Active Server Pages , recommend separation of the data and presentation , but according to Go.com , they do n't really enforce it .
JSP
" We do n't think that Java programmers should be stuck with JSPs , because we do n't think it 's the right model for development , " said Reece Wilton , engineering manager for Go.com , headquartered in Glendale , California .
Wilton said the company decided to freely distribute the software rather than charge for a license because they wanted to offer website producers a simpler alternative to JSP .
" We 've been using it at Go for awhile and found it to be successful , so we 'd like other companies to give it a try and see if it 's successful for them . "
And like other for-profit companies that are experimenting with open source , Wilton said the company would review any enhancements , and consider putting them into future versions .
Wilton said that JSPs require programming , which forces programmers to handle content , or content people to do programming .
Last week Go.com released Kettle , a GUI tool for Tea that lets non-programmers merge their data to presentation .
graphical user interface
" In the past , what has happened with technologies like JSPs and ASPs is that the producers have had to get engineers to do a lot of the presentation work , which does n't make sense because the engineers ' expertise is not in making good presentations , " Wilton said .
Go.com also released Trove , a library of Java classes used in Tea , which can be used to develop other applications as well .
These include a classfile interface , which simplifies the creation of Java class files , and a tool for creating log files .
Gerry Seidman , president of IAM Consulting in New York , has been in the Java programming business since 1996 and said the Tea language could be useful for large-scale site development .
" The problem is there 's two people in the world , programmers and layout types , " he said . "
It 's unclear who the audience for JSP is . "
Seidman said programmers can add JSPs tags to simplify the connection between data and presentation , but that 's still more programming .
Tea and its components are released under the same license used by the Apache Group for its Apache Web server , which allows the user to do anything with the code .
It 's much less restricted than the GNU General Public License , the most commonly used open source license .
GPL




New Shoot ' em-ups a Letdown

It 's a top-selling action game but that does n't guarantee top-flight experience .
While Diablo II from Blizzard Entertainment sold a record one million copies in two weeks , the more inventive Ion Storm 's Daikatana has yet to crack the top 10 list .
The original Diablo is mistakenly credited with reviving interest in role-playing games -- it was anything but an RPG .
It had the dungeon setting with magic and monsters , but it had all the play and depth of Quake .
Three years later , very little has changed .
Diablo II , the long-delayed sequel to Blizzard 's 1997 release , sells for a steep $ 60 and is still a third-person version of Quake .
Combat is still point-click-click-click-click with a few spells thrown in.
The maps are bigger , and there 's an interesting story line told through some beautifully edited scenes .
But it 's really the same game .
Once again , you proceed in a very linear fashion through a number of dungeons killing everything in your path , fulfilling quests as you go .
The game is split into acts , with different graphics and monsters .
The game is n't very challenging , either .
I breezed through the entire first act without a single threat to my character , mowing down monsters with one or two hits .
There are a few new ideas , such as new character classes and socketed armor and weapons , where you can add gems to your arsenal to enhance items .
There are also nonplayer characters you can hire to assist you .
NPCs
But they are n't much more than cannon fodder .
Also new for Diablo II , combat skills are branched and some can be learned only at higher levels .
Diablo II has its technical problems as well .
For starters , you can not save and continue playing in Diablo II , even though this is standard practice in most games .
You can only save and exit .
But if you save and exit while in a dungeon , you wind up in the town when you restart .
Where Blizzard made few innovations in Diablo II , Ion Storm tried too hard .
John " PT Barnum " Romero promised a revolution in gaming when he left legendary gaming company id Software in 1996 .
Unfortunately , it was his employees who revolted .
While creating Daikatana , Ion Storm went through enough people to staff an entire company .
Although he kept updating his staff , he did n't update the game from its original design .
Daikatana would have been a mind-blowing game in 1998 .
But with the release of Valve 's Half-Life , the bar was raised to a level no one has reached yet , including Daikatana .
The game overflows with content : monsters , cool graphics , and weapons .
But saturating a game with art does n't constitute an adventure title , which seems to be what Romero wanted .
Daikatana 's still very much the first-person shooter it used to be : You make your way through a maze and find buttons to open doors .
There are four regions of the world in four time periods , each with their own art and monsters , making it more like four minigames than one big game .
You have a total of 25 weapons alone ; I do n't dare count the number of monsters .
There is no interaction with NPCs .
Every other being you see is a target , with two exceptions : your sidekicks Superfly Johnson and Mikiko Ebihara .
was n't that the name of a blaxploitation film from the 1970s ?
The clumsy assistants are supposed to help you , and sometime they do , but more often they do inane things like stand in a doorway while the door slams them to death or run in front of you during combat , taking fire from you and your enemy .
And if they die , it 's game over .
Doing without sidekicks altogether would have made for a much better game .
an opinion shared by many Net posters
Daikatana does have one Romero hallmark that I heartily enjoy : surprises .
When I asked him about Quake II a few years ago , he said he missed the surprise element of booby traps , or being jumped from behind by creatures .
Daikatana has plenty of that .
You have to pay attention to everything in this game , because you never know when something is going to be dropped on your head or the floor disappear underneath you .
Blizzard tried to do too little , and Ion Storm was too ambitious , and neither produced a memorable game .
But I prefer Daikatana for its surprises and rich visuals .




Heat Is On for Free Energy

LAS VEGAS -- The highest ranking U.S. federal government official responsible for renewable energy believes that renewable technologies have a brilliant future .
Dan Reicher , the U.S. assistant secretary of energy , spoke at the Globex 2000 conference in Las Vegas on Tuesday .
Reicher heads up the Department of Energy 's Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy .
Part of his positive outlook for renewables , Reicher said , was due to the attention the G8 leaders gave the issue at last week 's summit in Japan .
" We do n't know what it means in specific terms , " Reicher said , " but obviously the G8 support for renewable energy and a concerted action by the G8 is a very exciting development and we 're going to do all we can to support that and I suspect we 'll have a fairly prominent role . "
Reicher 's vision for the renewable energy future is many technologies working together in " power parks . "
" Ultimately , we think we 're headed toward what we call power parks , where all of these technologies -- gas , industrial sized turbines , micro-turbines , fuel cells , photovoltaics -- come together in an industrial park .
The best advantages of each are emphasized and ultimately this is a self-powered , very clean , very efficient industrial operation , " he told the conference .
He acknowledges the policy challenges -- connecting these technologies to the grid safely and dealing with some of the financial and institutional issues .
But Reicher says the costs are going down and efficiencies are going up for all these renewable technologies .
These cost efficiencies are proving themselves in his own home in Chevy Chase , Maryland . "
A little over a year ago , I took the plunge , put solar panels on the roof , and also made some investments in energy efficiency .
I was able to hook up to the electricity grid .
Maryland is one of 29 states with net metering laws , which means when I 'm making more power than I 'm using , I 'm selling it back to the local utility ; in Maryland I 'm selling it at retail rates , " he said .
The energy savings for Reicher were clear in the first year -- a total electric bill of $ 384 for the entire year April 1999 to April 2000 -- a little over a dollar a day .
Reicher invested $ 3,700 for the solar photovoltaic system and an efficient air conditioner , lighting , and refrigerator .
" We think it can work all across the U.S. and our Million Solar Roofs program is designed to do that , " he said .
Announced by President Bill Clinton in 1997 at the United Nations , the Million Solar Roofs program is supposed to put solar systems on a million U.S. roofs by 2010 . "
We have more than 40 partnerships now , and we have initial pledges on more than a million roofs , " Reicher said .
" More than 70,000 systems have now gone in since June 1997 , 2,000 in the federal government itself on federal facilities .
In the next few months we expect to get to the 100,000 level , " he said .
Reicher is counting on the buying power of the federal government , the largest energy user in the United States , to drive many of these changes .
There are 500,000 buildings in the federal government , which spends $ 8 billion a year to power buildings , vehicles , and the like .
The shift to more efficient use of energy in federal facilities is already happening , Reicher says . "
On a BTU per square foot basis , we 're down 20.5 percent in building energy use , " from 1985 to today . "
That 's big savings , that 's good for taxpayers , that 's good for the environment , " he said .
Reicher 's long term vision is that people would pay no energy bill at all . "
We have a vision that we could be looking at cost effective , zero net energy buildings in this country , that link renewable technologies -- whether they 're solar , ground source heat pumps , biomass based , or geothermal -- to high efficiency building technologies .
We could essentially net out at the end of the year for people having no energy bill . "
" We 're some distance away from that , but we think this is an important vision to strive for , " he said .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS
All rights reserved .
For full text and graphics visit ENS




Call It ' Lord of the Bootlegs '

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- Filmmaker Peter Jackson is deadly serious about keeping under wraps the movie trilogy based on J.R.R. Tolkien 's Lord of the Rings that he 's filming in New Zealand .
Three people have been arrested after security problems occurred on the set of the movie . "
Information came to us in May and as a result we 've been looking at this issue and making inquires , " Kaye Calder , Wellington police district communications manager , said .
A 36-year-old stuntman was arrested last month .
He pleaded guilty in an Auckland court last week to receiving a document and reproducing a document .
read videotapes
The man , whose name is suppressed , will be sentenced August 9 .
On Thursday last week , a 38-year-old man was arrested on four counts of theft , and a 37-year-old businessman was arrested on Friday for money laundering .
Both appeared in an Auckland court on Friday and have been remanded on bail with name suppression for two weeks .
" In a project with such global interest there 's bound to be people who want to cash in on it , " Claire Raskind , the film 's publicist here , said .
In April , an official sneak preview of a movie trailer for Lord of the Rings confirmed that interest -- if it needed confirming .
The two-minute trailer was downloaded a record 1.7 million times in the first 24 hours after its release .
Raskind was hopeful the police operation had solved the security problem . "
I think we 've got the core of it , " she said . "
We think the police department did a great job . "
In addition to the criminal cases , Jackson 's production company Three Foot Six Ltd. has won civil proceedings to receive 500 photographs and negatives from a security guard who had taken pictures on the set .
A Wellington newspaper , The Evening Post , reported the guard had photos of the set , actors , and costumes .
Filming of the movie resumes this week after a month 's break , Raskind said .
After two weeks in Wellington , the shoot will move to a high-country farm in the South Island , brimming with spectacular scenery .
Sheep , not film stars , are the usual focus at the Mount Potts station .
The station runs 5,500 sheep , according to Mark Dewsbery , the station owner .
But the station also makes use of all its assets : Part of the station is the highest ski field in the South Island .
The filming at Mount Potts , according to Raskind , will be of " dramatic exteriors . "
New Line Cinema is expected to release The Fellowship of the Ring , the first of the three Lord of the Rings films , in December next year .




Protesting Gene-Altered Animals

Violence broke out this week during a demonstration outside an animal genetics conference in Minneapolis , prompted by worries over genetically modified animals .
Demonstrators outside the annual International Society for Animal Genetics conference in Minneapolis , Minnesota , reportedly rolled canisters of cyanide toward police trying to control the crowd .
ISAG
The protestors also hurled rocks and allegedly sprayed tear gas at police .
Police retaliated by using pepper spray and batons against the crowd .
No major injuries were reported , but 71 people were arrested for unlawful assembly , disorderly conduct , assault on a police horse , and assault on a police officer , said police spokeswoman Cyndi Montgomery .
The crowd was protesting the prospect of genetically modified animals -- animals altered genetically to , for example , yield more meat or ward off disease .
" People are worried engineer cows , horses , and sheep , like people have engineered tomatoes , corn , and wheat plants , " said Joseph Nadeau , a professor of genetics at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland , Ohio . "
that scientists will
All of the concerns about genetically modified food apply also to animals . "
ISAG shares information on genome studies of various animals .
One focus of the group is so-called " comparative genomics . "
By mapping the genome of various organisms , scientists can compare them to humans to learn about the function of human genes .
But activists are worried that the genetic engineering of animals could endanger biodiversity and delicate ecosystems .
In a statement , a group referring to itself as the " ISAG Welcoming Committee " called genetic engineering " runaway science ... that threatens our most basic humanity . "
A phone number listed on the statement from the welcoming committee was no longer in service .
The welcoming committee statement also denied that anyone in the crowd deployed tear gas , calling the accusation " a lame attempt to defame us , " and a " police-media smear job . "
In an attempt to avoid violence , police had erected concrete barriers and steel fences around the downtown hotel where about 650 scientists were meeting through Wednesday .
Police said they designated two areas that the demonstrators were free to gather in , but the group wanted to march .
Police conceded to a specified route for a march , but about a half mile before the end of the designated course , some of the protestors broke away and chaos broke out .
" We had tried to work with protestors on demonstrating their cause , " police spokeswoman Montgomery said . "
We support everyone 's right to free assembly and free speech . "
The Associated Press reported that one protestor thought the police were unduly violent in their response .
The police said they felt compelled to react as they did when the demonstrators threw rocks and sprayed gas .
And with the discovery of cyanide at the protest cite , the police felt justified in their actions .
" That 's serious , can be deadly , and Minneapolis police are there to protect the citizens , " Montgomery said .
cyanide
The FBI has taken over the investigation of the cyanide canisters .
Nadeau said he thinks that more and more , genetics conference organizers should be ready for demonstrations .
At a recent Human Genome Project conference in Germany , he said , peaceful protestors gathered bearing signs that read " Stop ! " and " Do you know what you 're doing ? "
" I suspect this is going to be more and more common as people begin to believe will influence their lives . "
genetic research




Amazon.com Shakeup Downplayed

SEATTLE -- Amazon.com went all out to reassure its employees and the investment community that the departure of Joseph Galli from the top ranks of the company would not affect the Internet retailer 's bottom line .
Despite reassurances from both Galli and Amazon 's founder and CEO Jeff Bezos that the move was strictly personal , the stock 's price fell on the news that the former Black & Decker executive was heading east .
Meanwhile , more ominous developments hit the high-profile e-tailer on Wednesday , with the site going down temporarily during the morning .
Amazon.com was back in operation as of 11:15 a.m. PDT .
Galli appeared on cable news shows throughout Tuesday , saying that his reason for the move was to be closer to his family , rather than because of any friction with Bezos .
Galli will head up VerticalNet , a business-to-business portal near Philadelphia .
Galli 's family , including two small children , remained in Baltimore for the past year while he worked at Amazon 's Seattle headquarters .
" I want you to know this is a peaceful parting , I 'll tell you that I served as Joe 's top reference , " Bezos wrote in e-mail to company employees following the announcement . "
Joe is a talented executive who really helped us over the last year .
I would ask all of you to join me in wishing him the very , very best . "
Amazon spokeswoman Patty Smith said the issue " came down to a geographical challenge for Joe . "
" He thought he could make it work , going back there every weekend and it just was n't working to his satisfaction , " Smith said .
She said Bezos will resume the position of president , which he held before hiring Galli , and that the company does not expect to be looking for a replacement in the near future .
Several news reports published since the announcement quoted friends who said Galli was also unhappy with Bezos 's laid-back West Coast approach to running the business .
The Wall Street Journal reported that Galli would give up a $ 3 million bonus from Amazon to take on the CEO position at VerticalNet for an estimated $25-million compensation package .
Wall Street 's reaction to the news was mixed , with most analysts willing to accept the story of Galli 's friendly departure at face value .
Nonetheless , the stock 's price tumbled both Tuesday and Wednesday on expectations that the heavily indebted company would announce further losses for the second quarter .
Amazon 's price sank 2-9/16 points to 35-1/16 in early trading Wednesday , after losing 1-1/8 points on Tuesday .
" Amazon 's down based on valuation , not because of , " said Steve Farley , a broker with Dean Rauscher in Seattle .
Galli
" When senior management leaves any company , especially Amazon , your lights go on because that 's a big sign , that they have to replace a big person , especially an emerging company like Amazon who needs to show a profit or they 're in serious trouble , " Farley said . "
On the outside , sure it 's bad , but when you dig deep , if he 's going because of his family and not because of the compensation , that 's not a big deal . "
While Galli may not be leaving for compensation , VerticalNet 's option offer , which promises Galli shares below market value , has to look attractive compared to his Amazon option package .
While Galli has vested options to buy 140,000 Amazon shares -- and unvested options on 3.7 million more -- his exercise price on those shares is $ 57.95 , more than $ 20 higher than Amazon 's current share value .
Tim Albright , an Internet and high-tech analyst for Salomon Smith Barney , said investors would make their decisions based on Wednesday 's quarterly earnings report .
He predicted that the stock was likely to rebound if the company could report less of a loss than expected by at least three cents a share .
" While Galli was a talented COO we do not believe he was irreplaceable , " Albright said in a prepared statement . "
The management bench at Amazon is certainly sufficiently deep to weather his loss until a replacement is found . "




Ireland 's ' Mad ' New Media Lab

DUBLIN -- Bono might have told MIT Media Lab Director Nicholas Negroponte this week that " the Irish were Italians who could n't dance , " but they were certainly ready to celebrate at the launch Monday and Tuesday of Media Lab Europe .
MLE is the new , 150 million pound , Dublin-based independent arm of the Media Lab whose doors will open to students in September .
Along with a kickoff reception and dinner in the MLE 's refurbished premises in a former Guinness brewery warehouse -- at which wine was the only alcohol served -- an select 300 attended a two-day symposium presented by a dozen Media Lab researchers .
Negroponte headed the event , which numbered artificial intelligence pioneers Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert among its speakers .
Negroponte said MLE would strive to be as productively " chaotic " as the Media Lab itself , with a particular emphasis on the arts and education .
The lab is " an intellectually different environment , " and MIT chose to locate MLE in Ireland because he felt those unusual strengths would be valued there . "
Ireland is a country that has a great respect for madness , " he quipped .
Certainly , the audience of academics , artists , students , technologists , corporate donors , and prospective donors seemed unfazed by a string of unorthodox projects with titles like Lifelong Kindergarten , Opera of the Future , Personal Information Architecture , Nanoscale Sensing , and Machine Listening .
And no one tittered at discovering that some eminent researchers hold titles such as the Toshiba Professor of Media , Arts and Sciences , or Lego Professor of Learning Research .
They were told about Media Lab experiments such as micro machines that can be printed out by an inkjet printer , a sensor chair in which people can make music by waving their arms about , interactive cinema , electronic ink , a silicon pen tip that draws lines a single atom wide , speakers that emit a laser-like stream of " ultrasound " that gets louder as you move away , and all sorts of other objects that think , thanks to the merging of bits and atoms , machine and body .
Playfulness in particular is central to the Media Lab approach , said many of the researchers . "
When you play , you 're never more creative , " said researcher Michael Hawley , who specializes in interactive toys . "
A toy is a tool for making your imagination real . "
MLE 's focus on arts is apparent in two of its first faculty members .
Glorianna Davenport specializes in interactive cinema and new forms of narrative , while Tod Machover is the wildly inventive music and technology specialist behind the Brain Opera , a large scale " interactive music experience " .
Both say that while the Media Lab has always fused art and technology , it also tends to emphasize the technology behind the work rather than the piece of art itself .
They believe MLE is well positioned to tap into Europe 's deep artistic culture and create a research environment where art can take center stage .
" MLE is new .
It 's a new space , a new context , a new set of people , " Davenport said .
Machover said he felt Ireland had little of the artistic bureaucracy and hierarchy that can hinder artistic productivity in other European states . "
It definitely has an openness of spirit , " he said .
The center will rotate faculty and bring in outside faculty from Ireland and across Europe .
Students will be selected globally , with the majority coming from European states .
MLE will eventually take over a second , neighboring warehouse and transform it into a performance space , Machover said .
Both he and Davenport say they are particularly interested in inventing new , large-scale formats for performance , a futuristic , technology-infused version of narrative or of opera which goes beyond the boundaries of those genres . "
We have to think bold , " Machover said .




Why Music Trading Will n't Die

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Amid the howls of protest and shouts of glee over Wednesday 's court order forcing Napster to shut down its file-sharing application , some members of the open-source software community are quietly discussing the possibility that Napster 's loss in court may not be such a bad thing .
" Shutting Napster down will n't stop file exchanges , " said Joseph Valliente , an open-source software developer . "
But what it may do is drive people to the many open-source alternatives that are out there .
" And maybe , just maybe , they 'll take a closer look at what open-source standards offer to all of us while they 're downloading their tunes . "
Two of the programs that most MP3-seeking surfers will now turn to , Gnutella and Freenet , are both based on open-source or free-software standards which stipulate sharing of information and decentralized control over that information .
Both allow users to send and receive all kinds of files without going through a central , single server .
Once a file is " set free " onto open servers , it is nearly impossible for anyone to stop anyone else from downloading it .
" You 'd have to shut down the Internet to stop Gnutella or Freenet , " said " Pheron , " a Linux developer . "
There 's no main artery for the suits to tie off that can stop the flow of information in a truly open system . "
Scour , the other likely alternative to Napster , is " closed source " and already faces its own day in court .
Many advocates of Gnutella and other open-source file-transfer programs believe that these applications have n't been widely adopted because people find them hard to use .
Freenet , for example , is n't searchable in the same way that Napster is .
" And that 's a feature , not a bug , " said " Swine1 , " a Freenet user . "
It keeps people from easily finding where something is stored on the network , so they can n't tell you to remove it .
Instead , you have to find things by using ' keys .
' You do this by telling someone what key you 're using , making an educated guess , or checking out key indexes .




Microsof Loses Case
No Typo

GENEVA -- Microsoft will be allowed to evict the holder of the Internet address microsof.com , the U.N. 's anti-cybersquatting board said on Thursday .
It is the software giant 's second victory in such a case .
Microsoft filed a complaint in June at the Geneva-based World Intellectual Property Organization against Tarek Ahmed , of Brooklyn , New York , who was the first to register the address as an Internet domain , a WIPO statement said .
WIPO
In ruling for Microsoft , the U.N. agency said Ahmed had registered the Internet address in bad faith .
WIPO runs an arbitration system that evicts cybersquatters -- Internet users who register famous names in the hope of making an easy profit .
A WIPO panel also ruled that the domain name was confusingly similar to the trademark already owned by Microsoft and that its owner had no legitimate interest in the Internet address .
" The respondent ... has engaged in abusive registration of the domain name ' microsof.com ' .
The panel orders that the domain name ' microsof.com ' be transferred to the complainant , Microsoft Corporation , " the panel ruled .
As the meteoric rise of the Internet has made domain names more valuable , the current first-come , first-served system has created a market for opportunists to grab Net addresses .
But the fast-track arbitration system of WIPO , the specialized U.N. copyright and intellectual property agency , allows firms and individuals to avoid costly lawsuits in pursuing squatters when mischief is the obvious motive or serious money is at stake .
Companies that have won back their names from alleged cybersquatters through WIPO so far include Christian Dior , Deutsche Bank , Microsoft , and Nike .
Hollywood 's highest-paid actress , Julia Roberts , evicted a New Jersey man who had registered juliaroberts.com as an Internet domain after filing a complain with WIPO .
But WIPO also said on Thursday it had ruled that British pop star Sting had failed in his bid to evict the holder of sting.com , saying among other things that sting was a common English word and the star had not provided evidence he had registered the name as a trademark .
Microsoft , owner of the domain names microsoft.com and microsoft.net , won in April a case against an individual residing in Arizona who had been the first to register the address microsoft.org .
In the latest case , WIPO said the holder of the microsof.com page prominently displayed the images of two Microsoft software boxes with the pitch : " We offer a wide variety of software , hardware and valuable services to help your business grow . "
Microsoft first asked the holder of the page to transfer the address , saying the name was confusingly similar to its own .
But WIPO said that Ahmed refused , telling Microsoft 's representatives in an e-mail : " I am a user and developer of Microsoft products .
I am right now seeking funding for a development project that ... will definitely enhance Microsoft 's customer relations . "
He also turned down an offer by the company to reimburse him for the registration fees he had paid for the address , saying : " ... you should contact Microsoft and tell them my situation and return with a much better offer . "
about
The respondent , according to WIPO , later complained on his website : " Microsoft is trying to rob me .
This is not (a) Microsoft.com site .
All I did was sell products and support Microsoft products .
Now they want to take away my domain name .
What happened to free trade ? "




A Wheelchair for the World

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Where do you want to go today ?
If you 're a wheelchair user , the 200-year-old technology that you sit in may not be able to take you there .
Wheelchairs are notoriously lousy at moving people over anything more than perfectly smooth and flat ground .
But a new high-tech transport device is set to change that .
The Independence 3000 IBot Transporter , demonstrated Wednesday in the Senate and at Vice President Al Gore 's home , uses computers to conquer the accessibility problem .
The IBot can roll smoothly on four wheels or two wheels .
In the two-wheel position , the user can be raised to the same eye-level as he or she would be in when standing .
It uses on-board sensors and gyroscopes that allow it to automatically readjust itself to changes in the terrain and its user 's center of gravity .
When confronted with an activity that requires a change in its current settings , the IBot polls its internal computer and sensors , which " vote " on the correct action to take depending on the data it has gathered and its user 's commands .
This built-in intelligence allows the IBot to perform actions such as rotating and realigning its wheelbase itself into " feet " -- allowing the user to climb stairs , mount high curbs , and move effortlessly and safely over virtually any kind of surface , be it high grass , sand , rocks , or shag carpeting .
Dean Kamen , founder of DEKA Research and Development , invented the device .
Kamen has patents for several quality of life devices like the portable dialysis machine .
He also holds a Guinness record for the longest interrupted span of time spent dressed in denim .
Kamen said that he came up with the idea for the IBot when he stumbled out of the shower one day but managed to recover his balance before crashing to the floor .
He figured that if he could do it , a computer should easily be able to replicate the process of rebalancing for mechanical objects like wheelchairs .
Tom Minutaglio , a retired financial market software systems engineer , has been closely following the development of the IBot .
" From what I understand , it can climb stairs about as fast as a non-disabled person can , can turn on a dime , can elevate you up to eight feet and is near impossible to tip over .
It is the sort of machine that will enable me to do things and go places I simply can n't with the current powered mobile scooters or wheelchairs , " Minutaglio said .
" And yes , " he said , " it can even take you the water 's edge on a sandy beach which for me would be nirvana .
Dean Kamen is a compassionate genius . "




The Softer Side of UV

Ultraviolet radiation , the leading cause of skin cancer , could be used to protect drinking water from potentially deadly parasites and other harmful microorganisms .
Researchers say UV radiation could become an environmentally friendly alternative to standard water disinfection methods .
" Theres the potential for a major paradigm shift in terms of whats appropriate disinfection technology for drinking water , " said Mark Sobsey , professor of environmental microbiology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill .
Parasites like Cryptosporidium parvum , which get into reservoirs and rivers through infected feces , are hard to kill .
Filtering them out or preventing them from getting into reservoirs have been the two most common approaches to protection until now .
Cryptosporidium can be deadly for the elderly , infants , and people withHIV/Aids or cancer who have weakened immune systems .
Close to 100 people died in an outbreak in Milwaukee in 1993 .
Though 90 different antibiotics have been tried , the infection does not respond to drug therapy , and no one knows for sure how much exposure can make people sick , adding urgency to the quest of finding ways to eliminate the pathogen .
UV radiation has now been shown to damage the DNA that instructs the single-celled parasite to multiply in mammalian intestines , causing the diarrhea , stomach cramps , and low fever symptomatic of cryptosporidiosis . "
UV doesnt kill the cell right out .
It just stops it from replicating , " said Karl Linden , an environmental engineer at Duke University who is part of the technical working group advising the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on UV disinfection .
EPA
The process is also effective against giardia , bacteria , and other microorganisms . "
It kills everything , depending on the dose you use , " said Linden .
As an added environmental benefit , the use of UV could eliminate disinfection byproducts -- potentially cancer causing leftovers of the chemicals now used to disinfect tap water .
DPBs
The EPA is currently considering limits for cryptosporidium in drinking water as well as new lower limits for DBPs to be proposed next spring .
UV is also being considered by the EPA as an approved technique to inactivate cryptosporidium .
The new advances are quickly finding their way into the commercial arena .
Last month Calgon Carbon Corporation was awarded a contract from West View Water Authority in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania to treat 40 million gallons of drinking water a day with UV radiation . "
Its environmentally safe .
It does not produce disinfection by-products , " said Calgon Carbon representative Gail Gerona .
DBPs such as trihalomethane and haloacetic acid are formed from chlorine , added to drinking water in the United States to kill bacteria .
Scientists are concerned that prolonged exposure to DPBs may cause cancer .
Since UV also kills bacteria , its addition would allow for less chlorine and possibly eliminate the formation of DPBs . "
The thought is to use UV followed by a little bit of chlorine -- not enough to produce disinfection by-products -- then you add some ammonia to create chloramine and thats what actually goes into the distribution system to protect the pipes , " said Linden .
Prior to the latest research , ozone was the only agent known to be capable of killing cryptosporidium .
Ozone is widely used as the primary disinfectant in Europe , where residual chlorine in the water is neither desired nor required as it is in the United States .
Ozone works well on very clean source water , but is expensive and can result in bromide DPBs .
Anticipating new EPA limits on cryptosporidium and DPBs , Seattle Public Utility is asking for bids on ozone treatment in combination with UV for its new water treatment plant at Cedar Hill . "
Theres still a lot of research that needs to occur , but UV is really shaping up to be a very economical and very effective treatment for cryptosporidium , as isozone , " said Julie Hutchins , chief engineer of Seattle Public Utility .
A handful of large cities , including Seattle , have watersheds and reservoir systems so clean that they were exempted from filtration requirements mandated by the EPA in 1989 .
Water quality in these watersheds is maintained by programs such as waterfowl management , farmer education , upgrade of sewage treatment plants , and limits on development -- all geared to reduce the amounts of human and animal waste , and close to 80 other pollutants with limits set by the EPA , that enter the reservoirs .
In May , the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority won a court battle against the EPA to keep their right to avoid filtration for the Boston metropolitan area .
MWRA
They proposed treating water from the Wachusset reservoir with ozone and chloramines , while continuing watershed protection . "
That will radically reduce our disinfection levels in the system , down to perhaps a quarter or third of what they are now , " said Stephen Estes-Smargiassi , director of planning for MWRA .
With the new research on UV , MWRA may eventually include UV as a disinfection option , even though their planned ozone plant would inactivate 99 percent of the already extremely low levels of cryptosporidium in regional reservoirs . "
We are scratching our heads , " said Estes-Smargiassi . "
This late-breaking news on UV is causing us to think a bit about what we should do . "
MWRA officials were concerned that installing a filtration plant would lead to increased public pressure to open restricted watershed lands to general recreational uses . "
We feel we have some pretty good evidence from what we see out there in the watershed , that a movement to a higher level of treatment would result in our seeing a lessening of support of watershed protection , " said Estes-Smargiassi . "
All the evidence we see says that a well-protected watershed reduces public health risks . "
Watershed protection of nearly pristine watersheds , rather than filtration , is the preferred way to protect drinking water and the environment . "
Watershed protection is a more environmental way of keeping drinking water clean , " said Mary Mears , New York State EPA representative .
New York City is another of the major metropolitan areas exempted from filtration .
Mears warned that willingness to spend money on watershed protection could diminish if New York City is forced to spend $ 6 billion on a filtration plant , as the EPA has recently proposed . "
Environmentalists would then be concerned that the city would do no watershed protection,"she said .
In fact , protection is already an issue in New York , where Riverkeeper , an environmental watchdog on clean water issues , has threatened to sue the city for failing to prevent development around the Hudson River and elsewhere in the watershed .
" Our biggest concern about water quality is trying to control and prevent inappropriate development projects east of the Hudson , " said Marc Yaggie , watershed attorney for Riverkeeper .
As far as the environment is concerned , " Prevention is better than any treatment technology , " he said .
Technology such as UV radiation could be added to existing water treatments , both filtered and unfiltered , to reduce the risk of disease , problems like DPBs , and perhaps avoid the need for massive filtration projects . "
Theres still a lot of research being done .
Theres a lot of excitement about using UV , " said EPA advisor Linden .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS




Ben & Jerry 's Dioxin Controversy

MONTEREY , California -- Ben & Jerry 's , a popular brand of gourmet ice cream , offers more than tasty flavors .
The frozen treat also serves a hefty helping of dioxins -- suspected carcinogens -- according to a study released Thursday at the Dioxins 2000 conference .
But the problem is not limited to any one brand of ice cream -- dioxin is a problem in all dairy products .
The study shows that the level of dioxin in a sample serving of one variety of Ben & Jerry 's ice cream is about 2,200 times greater than the level of dioxin allowed in wastewater discharged into San Francisco Bay from the nearby Tosco oil refinery .
Dioxin is a byproduct of industrial processes such as the bleaching of paper with chlorine , and the incinerating of garbage and medical wastes .
It is also created naturally through combustion of wood and other plant materials .
Because dioxin is fat soluble , it builds up in fatty tissues of wildlife , domestic animals and humans .
Dioxin is present in all dairy products such as ice cream because of its build up in milk fats .
The Environmental Protection Agency is in the process of reassessing the health risks of dioxin .
In a draft report released in June , the EPA warned that infants and children are most at risk of cancer , developmental problems , and reproductive problems from exposure to dioxins .
But all people , particularly those who eat diets high in animal fats , may be at risk .
Preliminary results of the current study sponsored by Junkscience.com set off a storm of concern about Ben & Jerrys products when announced last November .
Junkscience.com , a website supported by industries that examines health and science claims , bills itself as covering " all the junk thats fit to debunk . "
In anticipation of the EPAs long awaited reassessment , Junkscience.com tested Ben & Jerrys " Worlds Best Vanilla " ice cream to prove a point : At the dioxin " safe " levels set under current EPA regulations , some foods are already unsafe .
The study 's authors report that , according to Ben & Jerry 's and current EPA standards , the level of dioxin measured could cause about 200 additional cancers among lifetime consumers of Ben & Jerry 's ice cream .
Under the EPA 's pending reassessment of dioxins risks , the estimate would increase to about 2,000 extra cancers .
" The level of dioxin in a single serving of the Ben & Jerry 's World 's Best Vanilla Ice Cream tested was almost 200 times greater than the ' virtually safe &#91;daily&#93 ; dose ' currently used by the EPA , " said Michael Gough , an author of the study .
Gough is a former government scientist who chaired the Health and Human Services advisory panel on the effects of dioxin contaminated Agent Orange on U.S. Air Force personnel in Vietnam .




Napster Gets Stay of Execution

SAN FRANCISCO -- It seems reports of Napster 's demise were greatly exaggerated , as two federal appeals court judges on Friday granted the file-trading company 's request to halt an order that would have shut down the service .
The Napster application was scheduled to go offline Friday at midnight , after U.S. District Judge Marilyn Patel ruled Wednesday that the company was likely to lose its copyright infringement case against the music industry 's top record labels .
In a written statement , the two 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals judges said that " having raised substantial questions of first impression going to both the merits and the form of the injunction , the emergency motions for stay and to expedite the appeal are granted . "
Napster executives were obviously pleased with the news .
" I believe the Napster technology can help everyone involved in music -- including artists , consumers , and the industry , " Napster CEO Hank Barry said in a statement . "
New technologies can be a win-win situation if we work together on building new models -- and we at Napster are eager to do so . "
Not surprisingly , the Recording Industry Association of America was none to pleased with the court 's decision , implying that the case might be headed for a higher court .
" The Court of Appeals ' decision today granting Napster a temporary stay of the preliminary injunction is obviously a disappointment , but we remain confident that the court will ultimately affirm once it has had an opportunity to review the facts and the law , " RIAA CEO Hilary Rosen said in a statement .
" The Court of Appeals apparently regards this case as the first of its kind , and wants to consider it before any injunction takes effect , " Rosen said . "
The court 's order sets an expedited schedule for that review . "
The company also announced that it will continue its planned " Buycott , " asking its member base of 20 million to purchase the CDs of musicians like Limp Bizkit who have come out in support of San Mateo , California-based Napster .
Opening briefs in the case are now due on August 18 .




MP3.com Settles With EMI

MP3.com reached an agreement with EMI Group that will allow the online music company to use songs owned by the British record label in the my.mp3.com Web-based database , a source familiar with the talks said Thursday .
" An announcement is expected Friday that says MP3.com can use EMI 's music as part of the my.mp3.com service , " the source told Reuters .
EMI 's family of labels is home to such luminaries as the Beatles , the Rolling Stones and Frank Sinatra .
MP3.com assembled a database of over 80,000 albums , which when combined with its software allows users to store music digitally and then access it via any computer .
The service is called my.mp3.com .
A federal court ruling found that the San Diego company ran afoul of copyright law by creating the database , forcing the company to pursue settlements with the labels or risk court-imposed damages that could add up to billions of dollars .
A hearing is scheduled for August 28 in U.S. District Court in New York to determine the damages .
News of the settlement comes a day after a federal court in San Francisco granted a preliminary injunction to the major record labels , forcing song-swapping software company Napster to shut down the most attractive part of its service : the ability to download major-label songs for free .
The record labels ' vigilance against piracy stems from the advent of MP3 , a file format that allows users to store digital music files on their personal computers in small packets of data that are easy to copy and distribute .
The my.mp3.com service lets computer users with an original copy of one of the recordings in the data register that CD .
It then allows the user to listen to that album over the Internet from any computer , without having to insert the original disc .
MP3.com is expected to pay EMI roughly $ 20 million in damages to settle the suit and would also pay a fee each time that label 's CDs are registered by a user and another fee each time a user accesses one of its songs .
The deal is believed to be similar to the two deals reached last month with Time Warner 's Warner Music Group and Bertelsmann AG 's music arm BMG .
" We 're in negotiations with all of the remaining companies , " an MP3.com spokesman told Reuters , but declined to comment further .
EMI executives declined to comment .
That leaves two major labels that have outstanding claims against MP3.com : Sony Music Entertainment , which declined to comment , and Seagram 's Universal Music Group , where officials were unavailable for comment .
The gap between Universal and MP3.com had been pretty wide , several sources familiar with the negotiations said . "
But the two sides have begun to have some meaningful talks in the last week , " one source said .
Universal agreed to a licensing agreement on Tuesday with Musicbank , a privately held company based in San Francisco which operates a service that competes with my.mp3.com .
On Monday , MP3.com said it took a $ 150 million charge against its second-quarter earnings for the estimated lawsuit costs .
There is also a pending copyright infringement suit filed by song publishers .
The court is expected to rule Friday on whether the damages for copyright infringement are to be levied on a per-song basis or a per-album basis .
It will also rule on whether or not MP3.com violated the law with " willful intent , " which could give the presiding judge broad powers to impose dramatically increased damages .
However , MP3.com 's legal troubles pale beside those of Internet song-swapping service Napster , which was engaged in a legal fight for its life after a federal judge late Wednesday ordered it to shut down its site by midnight Friday .
Major record companies have charged it allows users to avoid paying copyright fees by letting them download music for free in the form of computer files .




I 'll Pay Anything for Optical !

Corvis Corp. , a little-known developer of optical networking equipment , set a new IPO record Friday with a $ 1.1 billion offering that more than doubled in first-day trading .
The Columbia , Maryland company , which is developing technology that makes data travel faster across fiber-optic networks , was met by an exuberant reception from investors .
The stock , initially priced at $ 36 a share , rose as high as $ 98 before closing up 135 percent at $ 84.72 .
The deal was remarkable for two reasons .
First , the Corvis offering marked the only time in U.S. history that a company selling more than $ 1 billion worth of stock saw its share price more than double in first-day trading .
Second , and perhaps more astonishing , Corvis achieved this feat despite having no revenue , no profits , and no product on the market .
In its three years of operation , the company has lost more than $ 125 million .
Only in the field of optical telecommunications networking could a company that has so far made so little could have gotten so much for its stock , analysts suggested .
" Optics is this year 's Internet , " said Richard Peterson , market strategist at First Call/Thomson Financial .
While a large portion of last year 's big IPO market winners were dot-com firms , the most lucrative stock market debuts in recent months have come from companies involved in optical networking or other technologies for speeding up traffic on telecommunications systems .
Investors ' interest in optical networking comes as an increasing volume of voice and data traffic puts pressure on telecom firms to install devices that move information more quickly along congested fiber-optic networks .
Optical technology allows companies to split a single fiber cable into multiple channels and to route traffic more efficiently .
Corvis and other newly public companies are also benefiting from the generous stock market valuations of more established networking firms like Cisco Systems , which owns 6 percent of Corvis , Nortel Networks and optical components maker JDS Uniphase .
CORV
CSCO
NT
JDSU
Those companies have shelled out billions in the past year to acquire smaller networking firms , further pushing up the value of startups with expertise in optical networking .




Keeping Up With the Phoneses

Robert Meldrum is banking his company 's future on the belief that people who juggle multiple phone numbers actually want to be reachable by everyone at almost any given time .
His vision is that people will pay to ensure that all their phones ring at the same time .
As co-founder and chief executive of SimulRing , a ten-month-old Redmond , Washington , startup , Meldrum is gearing up this week to launch a service that will allow Seattle-area residents to route phone calls to multiple extensions .
He 's hoping the service , dubbed Simultaneous Ring , will appeal to busy professionals and other folks who are sick of missing calls because they 're not around the right phone at the right time .
With SimulRing 's technology , a single call can ring on a cell phone , a home phone , an office phone , and up to seven other lines , all at the same time .
Messages can be routed into a single voice mailbox .
" What we 're doing is we 're divorcing a phone number from a physical piece of equipment , " said Meldrum , a former account manager with Lucent , who teamed up with James Cheshire , a former Bell Labs engineer and now SimulRing 's chief operating officer , to develop the simultaneous ringing technology .
Although the service is currently available only in the Seattle metropolitan area , Meldrum plans to move into the San Francisco Bay Area , New York City , Washington DC , Los Angeles , Philadelphia , and Boston later this year and to expand to 100 cities by the end of next year .
The service will cost $ 29.95 to activate , plus $ 9.95 a month for up to three phone lines .
SimulRing is n't the first company to offer a service targeted to cut down the confusion of maintaining multiple phone lines .
AccessLine , a company in nearby Bellevue , Washington , lets users forward a call from one extension to another , until a person answers or the call goes to a voice mailbox .
Whether individuals and businesses will show much demand for a service that makes a bunch of phones ring at the same time has yet to be determined .
SimulRing currently has about 150 Seattle-area customers that either participated in its beta test or heard about the company by word of mouth , but will only start offering its service to the general public on Wednesday .
For now , Meldrum is optimistic about the market potential , although he admits he 's heard some criticism .
" I 've heard a couple of people say " Gosh , I do n't think I know if I want to be that in-touch , " he said .
Meldrum reassures critics that the service does allow customers to change settings and stop getting calls sent to a particular number .
In addition , he advises , one can always just turn off the phone .
How often he takes his advice , however , is open to question .
In a recent call to Meldrum to test his new service , the SimulRing CEO answered from his car , where he had two cell phones simultaneously ringing .




Let the Games Be Streamed

If anyone has grand visions of hitting the Web to bypass NBC 's time-delayed offerings from the Summer Olympics in Sydney , they 'll probably be disappointed .
An International Olympic Committee spokesman confirmed this week that webcasting sports action from Sydney will be prohibited because the normal national boundaries that cover broadcast rights do not apply in cyberspace .
" Since the Internet has no borders , there 's no way we could , for example , give Internet rights in the United States that would n't impinge on the rights we 've already given to networks , " the spokesman said .
But a number of ideas have been kicked around for offering geographically limited access to websites that could then offer streaming video of Marion Jones winning yet another gold medal or , perhaps , some Australian in a high-tech sharkskin suit setting a world record .
For example , a site based in Germany could block a user in the United States from accessing proprietary video prior to its television broadcast back home .
The IOC is glad to hear any and all ideas -- and , in fact , has called a two-day summit December 4-5 in Lausanne , Switzerland , to plan for future Olympics and explore " the challenge of the emerging media and sports , " as the spokesman put it .
Among those who will be there is Quokka.com , which is teaming up this year with NBC to offer extensive coverage of the Olympics .
" We will definitely be participating in that conference , " said Tom Newell , general manager for NBC/Quokka Ventures .
" The next games is in February 2002 , here in the United States , and I expect the IOC will review their entire position before then , " Newell said . "
in Salt Lake City
You may have new technologies that are available .
Certainly you will have more people in closed systems , with cable modems or DSL connections . "
But Newell said that , given current technological limitations , Quokka and NBC are not overly worried about not being able to use video from Sydney .
" We went into this venture with NBC knowing there would probably be some kind of limitations , " he said . "
Frankly , the video experience is n't very good .
We probably would n't have changed a lot if we had n't had this as a variable .
One of the problems with streaming video is bandwidth problems that most people have .
If you 're sitting on a 28.8 modem , it does n't work very well .
It breaks up .
It 's not very good .
" What we try to do is to provide an entertainment experience that will n't rely on video .
We 'll use some video as a source material , " he said . "
NBC is going to have their own unilateral cameras .
We 'll be able to access the marvelous images that come from the broadcasts and display still pictures . "
If that sounds a little boosterish , that 's how it goes with Olympics sports .
But no one can accuse the NBC/Quokka Ventures site of not being thorough .
In addition to commentaries from NBC sportscasters like Ted Robinson or bearded Alexi Lalas and features on the individual athletes , the site also has as much information as anyone could want on Sydney and all the sports to be represented there .
baseball
soccer




Get Your Music Mojo Working

LAS VEGAS -- A new file-sharing system could best rivals like Napster and Gnutella through more anonymous and efficient transfers .
The service has an innovative feature that rewards users for uploading and distributing files : payment in a form of digital currency called " Mojo . "
" It 's a cross between Napster and eBay , " says Jim McCoy , the 30-year-old CEO of Autonomous Zone Industries , which created the open-source MojoNation software .
McCoy 's goal is nothing if not ambitious : to create the first file-sharing economy of agents , servers , and search engines in which senders and receivers can agree on prices for each transaction and use micropayments to get paid .
The prospect of millions of users spending Mojo tokens on pirated movies and songs is sure to draw the wrath of the entertainment industry , which has sued to shut down Napster and erase a DVD-descrambling program from the Web .
Another probable early use is pornography copied from other sites , and companies such as Penthouse 's publisher also have shown they 're willing to take legal action .
Autonomous Zone says that since it -- unlike Napster -- does not keep a master index of files , its employees are simply unable to remove references to illegal files stored on MojoNation servers . "
We are a bigger threat because we can survive most attacks , " McCoy says .
But the startup claims it wants to work with Hollywood through a voluntary-payment-for-downloads feature that the firm 's programmers have dubbed " PayLars , " a reference to Metallica drummer and Napster foe Lars Ulrich .
" When the president of Sony comes to us , we 'll say Gnutella 's never going to do anything for you , " says the Autonomous Zone programmer who goes by the name Zooko Journeyman . "
Fight them or die -- or join us and prosper . "
In an attempt to spread MojoNation quickly through the hacker underground , Autonomous Zone plans to release the beta version at the DefCon convention this weekend in Las Vegas .
Versions will be available on sourceforge.net for Windows and Linux machines .
MojoNation 's current stage of development is somewhere between a working prototype and a polished final product .
It works , but a friendly interface is still being shaped , and as of Friday , company programmers were still unearthing some remaining bugs .
At least when its development is complete , MojoNation should combine the ease of use and search capabilities of Napster and Gnutella with the kind of distributed server network that FreeNet uses .
Files that are uploaded to a Freenet server remain online after a user disconnects , but Freenet does not support searching or micropayments .
But will MojoNation be compelling enough to make other users switch ? "
It does n't seem to buy anything over Gnutella , " says Jon Lasser , author of Think Unix . "
It 's not clear to me who is served by this system . "
The libertarian-leaning cypherpunks -- only about seven so far -- who work at Autonomous Zone are pinning their hopes on creating an emergent network of electronic buyers , sellers , and service providers , all exchanging tokens that might represent as little as one-thousandth of a cent .
Another addition : A limited form of reputation-tracking , so you can determine which service providers are the most reliable .
The first time you log on , you generate a public and private key pair that the system uses to identify you .
" It is an ant colony of sorts -- tons of agents , each with its own specialized goal , " says McCoy , a former Yahoo engineer who founded Autonomous Zone last summer and is providing the seed capital .
By pinning even an infinestimal value on all transactions , the company plans to discourage piggish folks who download more than they contribute in return .
To earn Mojo tokens , users can sell their extra bandwidth or disk space and act as servers , or create their own service that others want to pay for .
A successful system would also likely include money exchangers who buy and sell Mojo tokens in exchange for dollars .
Before a MojoNation user uploads a file , the client software splits it into eight pieces using an algorithm akin to that used in RAID hard disk arrays : Only four pieces are necessary to reconstruct the entire file , and the sender can try to use the network to cloak his or her identity .




Napster : Not Just For the Music

Gene researchers and computer virus engineers alike want their Napster , but not for swapping the latest tracks from Da Brat .
All sorts of people have found ways to use Napster-like technologies , which connect individual computers to one another via a central server in order to share data .
But as a copyright infringement case against the company threatens to shut down the exceedingly popular music-swapping site , those dealing in perfectly legal data worry they could be stifled as well .
On Wednesday , U.S. District Judge Marilyn Patel ruled that Napster must stop allowing its users to share copyrighted music .
Since the program has no way to distinguish between music that 's copyrighted and music that 's not , her injunction would have effectively shut down the site .
But Napster 's not gone yet .
On Friday , 9th U.S. Circuit Court judges granted Napster a stay of the injunction , allowing the file-trading application to remain up and running on the company 's site .
Napster 's attorneys have until August 18 to file their paperwork regarding the injunction .
The trial date has not been set .
Should the trial turn out badly for Napster , some are concerned that it could set a precedent for all Napster-type technologies , even those that are legal .
" I worry very much that certain types of software may be banned because they can be used for illegitimate purposes , without regard for the fact that they have extremely and purely legal functions as well , " said Lincoln Stein , associate professor of bioinformatics at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories in New York .
Moreover , Stein said he worries that the judge 's decision could have far-reaching implications that would thwart more than just peer-to-peer technologies .
" If we take the judge 's ruling to a logical conclusion , we would have to ban the World Wide Web as well , " Stein said . "
I shudder to think the RIAA might bring suit against the World Wide Web consortium because many people are using the WWW routinely for sharing MP3 files . "
When Stein first encountered Napster , he thought scientists might be able to use it for sharing genetic information .
He began investigating ways to use Napster-type technology to allow scientists to share their research on the human genome .
" Napster has a similar architecture , but it allows for ' peer-to-peer ' data exchange and it dawned on me that it would be marvelous for our annotation system . "
to what we use now




Defcon : The Hacker 's Bacchanalia

LAS VEGAS -- What do you get when you mix 6,000 hackers and hacker-wannabees with booze , gambling and some of the hottest temperatures in the history of Sin City ?
Defcon , an annual gathering that holds the Alexis Park Hotel 's all-time record for the most alcohol consumed by one group in a weekend .
Defcon has always been an event known as much for its intensive technical content -- talks on " advanced buffer overflow techniques " are de rigueur -- as its social opportunities , but this year it seems to have become more party than conference .
Call it the new American geek holiday .
An example : Some 6,000 paid attendees showed up -- organizers ran out of badges at 5,000 -- but the hotel reports the three conference rooms used for Defcon hold a combined total of just 2,800 people .
The rest of the attendees seemed to be content occupying their time with poolside lounging , private parties in hotel rooms and , naturally , beer-tinged teenage high jinks .
Hotel staff patiently spent Saturday evening clearing smoke bombs and bubble bath from the three swimming pools -- as well as concrete that reportedly was poured in at least one toilet .
At one point , when a few malcontents became even more rambunctious , conference organizer Priest had to warn the crowd . "
If I find you , you will go to jail , " Priest said . "
You will go to jail for assault and trespassing . "
But for the most part , Defcon was a way for a young audience -- over half of the conference-goers seemed to be under 21 -- to gather in person and quietly talk tech .
San Francisco criminal defense attorney Jennifer Granick -- who is representing an increasing number of hackers accused of crimes -- gave legal tips on Friday , while the MojoNation folks spoke about their new better-than-Napster software on Saturday .
Anyone who revels in arcane Apple II and Commodore 64 hacking trivia would love the two rounds of Hacker Jeopardy , hosted by longtime infowar alarmist Winn Schwartau .
One of the best-attended events had little to do with hacking but everything to do with subversiveness : an hour-long tutorial on lock picking .
" V1ru5 " explained the finer points of the practice , starting with where to find picks and how to cajole a recalcitrant lock . "
he recommended bristles from street-cleaner brushes
Use graphite lubricant , " V1ru5 advised .
This year , organizers estimated that 10-20 percent of attendees were law enforcement or intelligence community officials .
Arthur Money , assistant Secretary of Defense , even spoke on a panel Friday morning .
The heavy , albeit low-key , presence of government officials seemed to make the longtime " fed spotting " practice somewhat passe .
Here 's the way it used to work : " If you see some shady MIB , earphone , penny-loafer , sunglass-wearing Clint Eastwood ... type lurking about , point him out , " conference founder " Dark Tangent " advises in the Defcon program . "
Men in Black
Just get my attention and claim out loud you think you have spotted a fed . "
Winners get the " I Spotted the Fed ! "
T-shirt , and the identified Fed gets the " I Am the Fed ! " shirt .




EBay Accused of Monopolization

The judge in the eBay v.
Bidder 's Edge case has refused to throw out antitrust allegations leveled by the auction listing re-aggregator against auction giant eBay .
Bidder 's Edge contends that eBay behaved anticompetitively and that therefore the company is guilty of monopolization or at least attempted monopolization .
" Bidder 's believes that the two companies are participating in a market involving online auctions , " said Bidder 's Edge attorney John Cotter . "
EBay prevented Bidder 's Edge from participating in the market . "
EBay disagrees .
" Their filing of an antitrust counterclaim was unsurprising , " said eBay attorney Jay Monahan . "
We consider it to be completely meritless . "
The antitrust law violations that Bidder 's Edge has alleged against eBay come in the larger context of eBay 's suit against Bidder 's Edge , in which the auction giant accuses Bidder 's Edge of trespassing on its servers , unfair competition , and other claims .
Judge Ronald White of United States District Court for the Northern District of California issued an injunction against Bidder 's Edge ordering the company to stop crawling eBay 's server with its automated spiders .
The injunction is on appeal .
This week , however , Judge White denied eBay 's motion to dismiss the antitrust claims made by Bidder 's Edge .
The judge suggested in a footnote of his order that , if eBay 's suit fails , the company 's technologic self-help measures may be evidence of antitrust activity .
" If automated crawling of eBay 's website is determined to be lawful , eBay 's alleged blockage of search activity may also provide a basis for an antitrust violation , " the judge wrote .
Bidder 's Edge 's
Bidder 's Edge 's
To be sure , the judge 's preliminary ruling is no legal slam dunk for Bidder 's Edge .
The order only established that the claim may continue and that more facts will be needed to address its merits .
Antitrust drums of war do beat about eBay , although they beat softly .
A MotleyFool study completed in February put eBay 's market share in the consumer-to-consumer auction space at 85 percent -- a figure that sets off bells in an antitrust attorney 's mind .
Also , the Department of Justice recently initiated a preliminary probe of eBay 's activities .
EBay 's Monahan dismissed both the market share arguments and the DOJ 's probe , saying that eBay and Bidder 's Edge were not competitors in the same market and that the DOJ has been quiet since eBay met with regulators almost nine months ago .
" We did have some discussions with DOJ staff , " Monahan said . "
We were actually quite happy to talk to them . "
Because there are many markets in which eBay competes , determining which one eBay allegedly attempted to monopolize would be difficult at best , Monahan said .
In any event , the attorney said , eBay and Bidder 's Edge do n't compete .
" We 're in the business of providing auctions and they 're in the business of providing auction listings , " he said .
Peter Ward , an attorney who has worked for the Federal Trade Commission on antitrust issues , said he sees no smoking guns in the antitrust claims made by Bidder 's Edge .
" An 85 percent market share has been in some cases evidence of monopoly power but the critical question is eBay 's ability to keep other people out of the market , " Ward said . "
Proving monopolization is a pretty steep hill to climb in a market that 's changing on a daily basis . "
As for the eBay 's blocking of access to its servers , Ward said the company would likely be able to defend itself against accusations of attempted anticompetitive behavior by saying that it had a legitimate business interest in doing so .




Ford Gets Wired With Qualcomm

Ford Motor and Qualcomm , a provider of wireless phone technology , announced the creation of a new company that will develop and deliver wireless information services into cars and trucks .
Dubbed Wingcast , the new company will offer voice , entertainment , Internet access and safety services in Ford vehicles .
The first services will be available in late 2001 .
Terms of the deal were not disclosed , but Ford and San Diego-based Qualcomm will each own equity in Wingcast .
In addition , Cartell , a supplier of telematics equipment to automakers , is a minority stakeholder .
Ford expects more than a million of its new cars and trucks to be equipped for mobile communications by the end of 2002 , three million by 2003 and nearly all of its cars and trucks by the end of 2004 .
- - -
Juno gets speed on high : Time Warner Cable will provide Internet service provider Juno Online Services access to its high-speed communications network in an agreement reached Monday .
Both Juno and Time Warner Cable plan to market Juno Express to their customers and have the ability to price and package the service independently .
Time Warner will be responsible for installing the service in customers ' homes .
Juno , with more than 3 million subscribers , would become the first ISP other than Time Warner 's Road Runner to reach a business agreement with Time Warner Cable for broadband Internet access .
Juno said it plans to offer its existing dial-up customers in Time Warner Cable 's service area the ability to upgrade to the high-speed service .
- - -
Lucent 's Brazilian contract : Lucent Technologies , the world 's largest telecommunications equipment maker , said on Monday it signed a $300-million contract with Brazilian phone company Telemar .
The company said in a statement that it would supply $ 300 million in goods and services to Telemar through 2002 .
The deal includes financing .
Lucent will supply Telemar switching and access products and services as well as in wireless local loop systems .
The company will also provide services and products in communications software , billing systems and professional services .
- - -
High-security restroom : Germany 's telecom watchdog , intent on ensuring the utmost fairness in its auction for new high-tech phone licenses is keeping security so tight that officials can n't go to the bathroom unattended .
The level of security reflects how much is at stake for the German government , expected to reap a windfall 30 billion euros from the auction , and for telephone firms , for whom the third-generation mobile phone licenses hold the key to their future .
$ 27.73 billion
Bidders are being strictly segregated from each other and from the 200 media representatives covering the auction , which started on Monday in the spartan surroundings of a former U.S. Army barracks near Mainz , in southwestern Germany .
Mobile phones are strictly " verboten " in an attempt to remove any scope for price-fixing collusion among bidders .
The rules are enforced by police and private security guards , who resemble nightclub bouncers in their black bomber jackets .
Seven companies and consortiums are bidding for the four-to-six Universal Mobile Telecommunications System licenses on offer that are crucial to the European strategies of some of the world 's largest telecom groups .
- - -
Education deal : British media group Pearson said it had wrapped up a $2.5-billion cash deal to buy U.S. education services company National Computer Systems in a move that would create the world 's leading integrated education company .
Pearson shares fell almost 7 percent after the group said it would finance the agreed deal with a 1.7-billion-pound rights issue , offering shareholders three new shares at a deep discount of 10 pounds each for every 11 owned .
$ 2.55 billion
Pearson -- whose interests span education , books , magazines and TV -- announced the acquisition alongside interim results that showed a 32-percent rise in operating profit to 148 million pounds before exceptionals and Internet enterprises .
Pearson shares were down 5.7 percent at 18.96 pounds at 0920 GMT after dipping as low as 18.75 pounds as the market took fright at the size of the rights issue .
- - -
Fishy merger for Monger : WorldCatch.com and Fishmonger.com , two of the seafood industrys online leaders , announced an agreement to merge .
The company will operate as WorldCatch and will continue to be based in Seattle .
The seafood market is a $350-billion global industry .
- - -
Shareholders back merger : Glaxo Wellcome shareholders backed the company 's planned merger with SmithKline Beecham to form the world 's largest pharmaceuticals group by market share .
" I am delighted to declare that it has been carried , " Glaxo Chairman Richard Sykes told the extraordinary general meeting .
SmithKline shareholders are expected to follow suit at a separate meeting this afternoon .
The new group , to be headed by SmithKline 's Jean-Pierre Garnier , is expected to be created by September 25 , pending approval of certain disposals by regulators in the U.S. , the world 's most important pharmaceuticals market .
The deal also needs to be sanctioned by the British court .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Aussies to Trade Green Power

SYDNEY , Australia -- Fifteen energy companies in Australia have agreed to implement a new way to trade the rights for electricity that is generated from renewable energy facilities .
The Green Electricity Market Project will be an Internet-based exchange that allows members to trade green power generation .
GEM
The extensive consultation between the electricity industry and the government is expected to provide a major boost to Australia 's renewable energy sector as it prepares to meet requirements arising from the federal Renewable Energy Target , as well as to meet retail customer demand for green power .
As of January 2001 , competition and customer choice will be introduced into the Australian electricity market .
Large companies can already choose their electricity provider , and from January 2001 , residential and small business customers will be able to make the same choice .
" To meet the renewable energy contracting requirements of power companies , GEM will deliver the worlds first industry governed green e-marketplace by early next year , " says Ken Chapman of M-co , the company that will implement the project . "
It will also support the fulfillment of the governments compliance reporting conditions for market participants . "
" GEM will give a real boost to the renewable energy market in Australia , " says Philip Harrington of the Australian Greenhouse Office 's Sustainable Energy Group . "
It will make it much easier for market participants to buy and sell green power and it will reduce transaction costs . "
Charter members include AGL Electricity , Aurora Energy , CS Energy , ENERGEX Retail , Ergon Energy , Hydro-Electric Corporation , Macquarie Generation , Optima Energy , Origin Energy Electricity , Pacific Hydro , Pacific Power , Primergy , Powercor Australia , Snowy Hydro Trading , and Stanwell Corporation .
Initial financial support will come from these companies .
Shortly , GEM will be opened to all industry participants .
GEM will allow the members to track their generation under the mandatory target of providing 9,500 GWh of renewable energy as of next January , and to build an efficient market for renewable energy certificates .
" We support market-based mechanisms for the supply of renewable energy because markets can deliver effective outcomes at least cost , " says Harry Schaap of the Electricity Supply Association of Australia . "
GEM will assist renewable energy based electricity generators , green power retailers , and other GEM participants to trade effectively and efficiently in green electricity rights , and that will help to stimulate a dynamic green electricity market , " Schaap says .
The Marketplace Company is the Australian subsidiary of M-co , the firm that administers the New Zealand electricity market .
It transacts more than A$1 billion worth of trading each year through its proprietary Internet based trading systems .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS
For full text and graphics visit:ENS




The Agony of Ecstasy

What goes up , must come down , and when you 're talking about the mood-altering drug ecstasy , the " down " can last a lifetime .
Dr. Steven Kish of the Center for Addiction and Mental Health in Toronto compared the brain tissue of a 26-year-old chronic ecstasy user who 'd overdosed with 11 non-drug users .
Roughly 50 to 80 percent of the neurotransmitter known as serotonin in the overdose victim 's brain was depleted , Kish found .
No noticeable decreases were found in the control group .
" This is the first study to show that this drug can deplete the level of serotonin in humans , " Kish said .
About 15 human studies have found that cognition was reduced with use of the drug , although serotonin was not one of the substances mentioned , he said .
Serotonin is an important neurotransmitter responsible for regulating mood , usually for the better , and controlling some thought processes .
Ecstasy is considered an " empathic " drug , with users reporting a heightened sense of euphoria and desire to socialize .
But when the serotonin runs out , depression sets in.
Cognition , thought processes including memory , pain perception , sleep , and appetite all are affected .
The medical word for ecstasy , methylenedioxymethamphetamine , or MDMA , is structurally related to the hallucinogen mescaline and the stimulant amphetamine .
Antidepressants act on the serotonin system to elevate lower amounts of serotonin in depressed people .
" This probably explains why ecstasy users are depressed or unhappy the day after they use it , " Kish said .
In Kish 's study , the serotonin depletion was sometimes reversible , but sometimes permanent damage was observed , depending on which area of the brain was being scrutinized .
He cautioned that more research is needed , since " we can make no statement on brain damage . "
The study is significant because it conclusively points to consequences in the human brain -- a toll that drug educators can use when speaking at schools , said researcher Karen Borell of John Hopkins University . "
I think it holds promise for prevention .
It seems to be the No. 1 drug of choice , especially among the younger population , " she said .




GM Food Labeling Down Under

CANBERRA , Australia -- Bowing to overwhelming public pressure , health ministers from Australia and New Zealand rejected lobbying by the food industry and agreed to adopt a zero threshold standard for the labeling of genetically modified foods .
GM
In a concession to the food industry , food sold at restaurants and cafes as well as many food additives and food processing aids will be exempt from the labeling requirements .
The new standards will come into force in mid-2001 .
They were adopted by the Australian and New Zealand Food Standards Council , which includes the health ministers from each Australian state and the heads of the Australian and New Zealand governments .
FSC
The food industry is pleased with the exemptions but concerned about the costs of labeling genetically engineered foods .
GE
The executive director of the Australian Food and Grocery Council , Mitch Hooke , said , " This is a decision the industry has been looking for and consumers have been expecting .
It should go a long way to meeting the fundamental objective of providing consumers with meaningful information upon which they can exercise their right to choice , " Hooke said .
Consumer and environmental groups consider the decision only a partial win .
" With the zero threshold decision , ministers have ensured some GE foods will be labeled but their decision excludes many ingredients such as vegetable oils and enzymes used in cheese , baking , and brewing , " director of the GeneEthics Network , Bob Phelps , said .
The chairman of the Australian and New Zealand Food Standards Council , Australian Senator Grant Tambling , said he is disappointed that the decision " will require industry to test to determine whether DNA is present in the areas of highly refined ingredients , processing aids , food additives , and flavorings .
The new regulations will impose a financial cost on industry and this will be reflected in the cost of food to consumers , " Tambling warned .
Australian Consumer Association spokeswoman , Gail Kennedy , rejects the suggestion that consumers ' right to information should be traded off against cost . "
Cost should not be the excuse for forcing consumers to swallow gene-modified foods .
All the surveys have indicated consumers want to know definitively what is and what is not gene modified , " she said .
In the days before the ministers ' meeting , Hooke had described calls by consumer groups for comprehensive labeling as " terrorist labeling . "
" Some of the consumer advocates might do well to ask the consumers that they purport to represent how much are they prepared to pay for a labeling regime that is so draconian that it in fact becomes nonsense labeling .
It 's almost terrorist labelling , " Hooke told an Australian current affairs program .
Strong lobbying by the food industry and the Australian Prime Minister , John Howard , for a far weaker standard would have required labeling only for foods that contained more than 1 percent genetically modified content of each food ingredient .
With opinion polls showing 93 percent of Australians backing comprehensive labeling , the Australian Consumers Association argued that the proposed 1 percent threshold would in fact allow up to 70 percent of foods on sale to remain unlabeled .
ACA




Chaos Dogs Dot-Com Directories

It seemed like an easy project .
Brian Webster , a promoter of events for San Francisco Internet companies , decided late last year to sort through the pile of business cards and contact information he 'd amassed in the course of his job and put together a directory of local dot-com businesses .
He figured it would take three months , maximum , to fire off a batch of email surveys , make a few follow-up phone calls , and type up a basic contact list .
What he had n't fully anticipated , however , was the speed at which information about dot-com companies gets outdated .
" Thank God I did n't know what I was doing when I started , because otherwise I would n't have started , " said Webster , who expects to get the first copies of San Francisco 's Dot-Com Directory back from the printer next week , about four months later than he 'd originally expected to finish .
Between new startups launching , older ones going bust , and middle-aged startups moving offices or getting bought up by competitors , compiling the research for the slender volume required substantially more legwork than Webster had foreseen .
Even with the late completion , he 's certain the 96-page book still missed a lot of firms .
" It was hard to get the word out .
Nobody responded to our email , " he said , a complaint echoed by others in the directory-making business who suspect that dot-com executives get bombarded with too much email on a daily basis to bother filling out something as mundane as a directory survey .
It 's a common complaint in the directory business that low response rates and the speed of expansion in the Internet industry make it difficult to keep information current .
" Things are moving too fast for someone to do the job of a comprehensive directory , " said Jack Plunkett , CEO of Plunkett Research , which publishes an almanac of data and profiles on firms involved in Internet commerce .
In the latest version of the almanac , Plunkett profiled only established , publicly traded firms .
He said he avoided attempting to track the chaotic startup market on the belief that " today 's company might be tomorrow 's bolted door . "
Webster , for his part , said he did n't have as much trouble tracking companies that shut down as he did keeping up with new ones cropping up .
In San Francisco alone , hardly a day goes by without a new startup rolling out or a larger national or international firm setting up a local branch office .




Army Battle-Ready for Convention

PHILADELPHIA -- The U.S. Army is prepared to respond to disruptions ranging from civil disobedience to nuclear explosions at the Republican National Convention , a confidential government document says .
The terrorism response plan includes flying giant C-5 Galaxy cargo planes loaded with military gear into Willow Grove Naval Air Station , about 25 miles outside the city , and assembling troops at three National Guard armories near the downtown protest areas .
" Preparedness for nuclear , biological , chemical , and civil disturbance events , as well as potential weather-related disaster events , must be considered , " says the Federal Emergency Management Agency document , obtained by Wired News from a source who asked to remain anonymous .
A FEMA spokesman confirmed the authenticity of the document , but said he did not have any information that a terrorist attack was likely to happen during the GOP convention .
" We try to plan for any event like this as we would plan for a hurricane , " said Ross Fredenburg , FEMA 's regional public information officer .
The 75-page operations manual , labeled on each page " For Official Use Only , " says : " There is a greater probability that an act occurring during the RNC could result in high-risk situations and possibly necessitate a tactical response by the local , state , and federal governments . "
Security is already at an all-time high for a convention , with flight restrictions in place over central Philadelphia , nearly all city police on duty , and guards equipped with mirrors searching for bombs under vehicles that approach the First Union Center .
The document , created by FEMA to supplement its usual procedures , says that the U.S. First Army will , if necessary , execute Operation Garden Plot to quell any serious civil disturbances .
Operation Garden Plot has long been an object of speculation by conspiracy theorists , but the watchdog group Federation of American Scientists describes it as the military 's overall plan for " support related to domestic civil disturbances " that was last used during the Los Angeles riots in 1992 .
Critics such as the American Civil Liberties Union have protested the recent trend to use military troops for law enforcement purposes .
The FEMA plan even goes so far as to spend 12 pages listing hospitals and numbers of licensed beds -- including places as far away as St. Luke 's Hospital in Quakertown , a 40-mile drive .
" The RNC will dominate national headlines , " the FEMA document says . "
The potential occurrence of an event that would reflect negatively on Philadelphia , the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania , or the United States demands that every effort to preclude such an event be taken . "
It notes that the convention , which ends Thursday , means a " high concentration of dignitaries , worldwide media coverage , and increased population density . "
But the document says the Secret Service , from its " multi-agency communications center " at 20th and Johnson streets , is in charge of handling convention security .
The FBI 's " forward command center " is also located there .
If a terrorist attack happens , FEMA is responsible for aiding the FBI .
But if the president declares martial law in response to looting , vandalism , or civil unrest , FEMA works with the Defense Department .
In case of a catastrophic attack on Philadelphia -- a nuclear assault , for example -- a backup FEMA regional command post is located at the U.S. Army Reserve Center at Willow Grove . "
The Willow Grove NAS has been designated the mobilization center for the staging and/or movement of federal consequence management resources for the RNC , " the plan says . "
This is a closed facility with a pass required for entry . "
Fredenburg said FEMA would be called out if the president decides state and local officials can n't handle a serious situation at the convention . " ...
Bringing in federal assets is a worst-case scenario . "
Fredenburg said the California FEMA office has prepared a similar plan for the Democratic convention in mid-August .
Under the 1984 Stafford Act , FEMA is in charge of coordinating military responses to natural disasters such as hurricanes , earthquakes , or thunderstorms .
In August 1992 , for instance , the Army was deployed in South Florida under FEMA direction to aid in recovering from Hurricane Andrew .




The Garage Band Success Story

There 's an old axiom in the independent music scene that says fire your manager because he does n't do anything for you .
Monovox did n't go that far , but the quartet did hit one of the biggest digital music jackpots by ignoring him .
Over their manager 's objections , the group uploaded one of their songs to garageband.com in hopes of winning a four-album , $ 250,000 recording contract offered by the site .
" Our manager did n't want us to blow up with one song and die out like a one-hit wonder , " said Anthony Shaw , Monovox 's lead singer . "
He wanted us to be a long-term band and he saw that song as something that could be threatening to a long-term career . "
At San Francisco 's garageband.com , independent bands can upload a song onto the website .
Fans who visit the site are then asked to rate a select number of songs on a scale of 1 to 5 .
Tallies are kept on each song , and through a process of elimination , songs are slowly dropped from the rating system until there is only one song left .
In February , that one song was from Monovox .
" Once we were in the final countdown , we really got interested , " said lead guitarist Matthew Schaefer . "
It 's bad because there is nothing you can do , you just sit there .
And you can n't cheat .
Believe me , we looked into it .
All we could do was just sit there and watch the reviews come in. "
Come in they did , making Monovox the No. 1 rated band on the site .
Since then , everything has worked out nicely for the group .
Despite the bad piece of advice , the manager kept his job and the Madison , Wisconsin , band is finishing up its first album with its new label .
This has n't been their first successful flirtation with the Web , although the garageband.com success certainly has the looks of being much more lucrative than past endeavors .
Originally formed under the name JJWar in 1994 , the quartet fled Fond du Lac , Wisconsin , and the following year headed off to Chicago with dreams of hitting it big .
While working on the first CD , Burlap and Broadcast , the group put up their first home page and discovered a novel way to make a living .
" To pay the bills , we were able to do Web design and make money , " Schaefer said . "
Not only did we use the Internet to promote the band , it 's how we paid for our gear and for our van .
We got really good at Web design really quickly .
" Once we learned how to do Web design for ourselves , we just started farming it out to other bands , " he said . "
We started teaching other bands how to design their Web pages and that money then got turned right back around and we bought guitars .
That was how we lived and worked . "
Of course , if the garageband.com gig works out , there will n't be too much Web designing in their future .
While the band is in the studio recording their new album , they continue to negotiate with the music company over rights , although Schaefer said he expected few problems .
" You always want to make sure that no matter what happens , you never have it where things being presented to you are being owned and controlled by people completely outside of the band , " Schaefer said . "
But I do n't think they are going to give us one album and then hang us out to dry if it does n't sell well . "




' Human ' Cow Milk an MS Aid ?

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- The lush pasture of some of New Zealand 's finest farming land , in the heart of the North Island near where the country 's sleekest racehorses are bred , will soon be home to a special herd of cows .
New Zealand 's state-owned agricultural research institute has just won government approval for a five-year field trial to insert an artificial human gene into dairy cattle .
Scientists expect the cows will produce a protein in the milk that could help people with multiple sclerosis .
Phil L'Huillier and his team at AgResearch 's Ruakura Research Center will transfer transgenic cells into cows ' eggs , culture embryos , and then transfer those embryos to surrogate mothers .
The calves they produce will carry the synthetic gene , and should produce the human myelin basic protein in their milk .
The role of myelin in multiple sclerosis has been known for quite a long time , L'Huillier said .
But getting enough of it has been a problem .
That 's where cows ' milk comes in.
It becomes a " biological factory " for the MBP , which would then be purified and eventually put through a clinical testing process to determine its efficacy in treating multiple sclerosis .
Myelin is the protective sheath around nerves which prevents " short circuits . "
When a person has multiple sclerosis , the myelin is destroyed , perhaps as a misdirected response by the body trying to fight off some other infection , said Tom Miller , research director of New Zealand 's Multiple Sclerosis Society .
" bit like friendly fire when you kill your own soldiers , " Miller said .
It 's a
The MBP produced in cows ' milk could act as an alternative target . "
The immune system goes for the surrogate target , rather than the myelin itself , " Miller said .
Using the technique with milk is not new .
Sheep and their milk are being used here in cystic fibrosis research , and goats are being used in U.S. research into hemophilia .
But even though the AgResearch request was only for a strictly contained field trial , the application has been hotly debated .
Approval of the project by New Zealand 's Environmental Risk Management Authority , which considers all such applications , was not unanimous .




Caldera Unites Linux , UNIX

Caldera Systems , which develops Linux software for Internet access , said it would offer the industry 's first Internet platform that accommodates both Linux and UNIX operating systems .
Caldera said Wednesday it would acquire two divisions from Santa Cruz Operation , a leading provider of UNIX operating systems and server software , and use one , the Professional Services division , to set up a new company offering the unique platform .
In exchange for its Professional Services and Server Software divisions , Santa Cruz Operation will receive a 28 percent stake in Caldera plus $ 7 million in cash , the companies said .
The 28 percent stake will amount to about 17.54 million Caldera shares worth that are worth nearly $ 300 million , they said .
The companies expect to complete the deal in October .
- - -
Former Telefonica chair cleared : Spanish stock market regulators cleared former Telefonica Chairman Juan Villalonga of wrongdoing in an insider trading investigation that helped force his resignation last week .
The National Securities Market Commission said there was " insufficient evidence " to prove that Villalonga -- chief architect of the company 's global expansion -- used privileged information in a 1998 stock options trade .
Villalonga , 47 , stepped down a week ago -- citing heavy pressure from the Spanish government -- but repeatedly denied any basis for the insider trading allegations , complaining that he was the target of a smear campaign .
Leading shareholders , unhappy with his failure to consult them on major deals , had been pushing for his resignation for months .
- - -
Priceline auto insurance : Priceline.com and insurer W.R. Berkley said Wednesday they plan to offer car insurance online through a joint venture called Priceline.com Auto Insurance Agency .
The new venture will pay Priceline.com an annual licensing fee based on revenues generated , the companies said .
W.R. Berkley will oversee underwriting and recruit other car insurers to participate in the service .
Priceline plans to offer term-life insurance later this year and auto insurance early next year , said Ben Ness , senior vice president of financial services for Priceline.com .
- - -
Nortel outsources $ 3 billion : Nortel Networks said Wednesday it would pay Computer Sciences Corp. an estimated $ 3 billion over seven years to outsource its global information services functions .
Computer Sciences will support Nortel 's information services organization with help-line support , computer infrastructure management , legacy application development , and data center management .
The deal involves the transfer of 2,000 Nortel employees to Computer Sciences professional services team , the companies said in a statement .
- - -
Website design by AT&T and HP : AT&T and Hewlett-Packard said on Wednesday they will work together to develop hardware , software , and networking solutions for global companies and dot-coms that do business online .
AT&T Solutions , the networking unit of AT&T , will work with Hewlett-Packard " to help customers succeed in the new Internet economy " by offering web design , application development , online security software , and management of their Internet business systems .
Hewlett-Packard computer systems will be incorporated into AT&T 's network of Internet data centers , which already offer businesses a secure host for high-speed data transmission .
- - -
Advanced Medicine 's sick IPO : Advanced Medicine , a drug discovery company backed by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates , withdrew on Wednesday a $ 172.5 million initial public offering because of unfavorable market conditions .
The San Francisco-based company , which originally filed for the IPO with the Securities and Exchange Commission in March , had applied for a Nasdaq listing under the symbol " ADVM . "
The offering was intended to be jointly handled by Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch , with assistance from Bear Stearns .
Gates holds a 7.5 percent stake equal to 2.9 million shares , according to Advanced Medicine 's IPO filing .
Reuters contributed to this report .




SETI Scope Searches Stars

With millions of dollars in funding pledged by two of the men behind software giant Microsoft , the search for intelligent life on other planets got a big boost Tuesday as officials unveiled plans for a massive new telescope to scan the skies .
The Allen Telescope Array -- named for Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen , who put up $ 11.5 million for the project -- will be " the world 's most powerful instrument designed to seek out signals from civilizations elsewhere in our galaxy , " the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence Institute said .
Joining Allen in funding the project was former Microsoft Chief Technology Officer Nathan Myhrvold , who contributed $ 1 million toward the $ 26 million needed to build the field of hundreds of linked radio telescope dishes in Northern California .
" While the best scientific estimates tell us the probability of intelligent life elsewhere in the universe is fairly high , there is great uncertainty and some controversy in the calculation , " Myhrvold said in a statement .
" One thing , however , is beyond dispute .
That is , if we do n't continue supporting projects like the Allen Telescope Array , our chances of discovery will remain at zero . "
Plans for the telescope mark a turning point for the SETI Institute , the Silicon Valley-based nonprofit , which is the world 's largest private organization devoted to the search for extraterrestrial intelligence .
The institute 's Project Phoenix , which spends more than $ 4 million a year to buy time on large radio telescopes , is widely held to be the inspiration for the 1997 film Contact , starring Jodie Foster .
But institute researchers have never before had their own installation devoted exclusively to hunting down signals from alien worlds .
" We 're overjoyed , and we 're ready to move ahead , " said Jill Tarter , the institute 's director of research . "
Paul and Nathan have understood from the beginning how exciting and groundbreaking this telescope could be .
They have contributed time and ideas to our work , and now they are quite literally giving us the means to make it happen . "
The telescope , which will be jointly administered by the University of California at Berkeley , will be situated about 290 miles north of San Francisco at the university 's Hat Creek Observatory , a remote site that is " radio quiet " with little static or man-made interference .




Judge to FBI : Move on Carnivore

The FBI must respond to privacy activists ' request for information about the Carnivore email surveillance system .
In a hearing late Wednesday , U.S. District Judge James Robertson ordered the FBI to promptly respond to a Freedom of Information Act request submitted by the Electronic Privacy Information Center last month .
The ruling gives the FBI ten working days to tell EPIC when it can see Carnivore records under an " expedited " Freedom of Information Act procedure .
EPIC sued the FBI earlier in the day , saying the agency should be forced to immediately disclose information concerning Carnivore .
The suit came after EPIC asked for an expedited FOIA action from the agency but the FBI failed to respond .
The judge scheduled an emergency same-day hearing after the suit was filed .
Carnivore was recently revealed to be a method used by the FBI to tap electronic mail communications during criminal investigations .
The FBI has been reluctant to reveal Carnivore details , partly on the grounds that such exposure would let programmers create their own , malicious Carnivore clones .
In an application for a temporary restraining order , EPIC charged that the Department of Justice and the FBI failed to expedite the FOIA request it submitted to the agencies last month .
available as a file download at EPIC 's website
The judge 's order was a moot point by the time it came -- the FBI and Justice Department made a last-minute concession to grant EPIC 's request .
At the opening of the hearing , EPIC 's general counsel David Sobel told the judge he had just received the affirmative answer in a fax from the FBI and Justice Department .
Assistant U.S. Attorney Lisa Barsoomian told the court the FBI planned to make the documents available " as soon as practicable . "
Robertson ordered the FBI to give him a timetable for meeting the FOIA request in ten days .
" I am basically very pleased with the outcome , " said Sobel . "
It in effect means that the federal court is now supervising the FBI 's handling of this material and its compliance with our FOIA request . "
Sobel called it a very positive development , putting EPIC and other privacy groups seeking Carnivore information in a position to examine the legal and technical details surrounding the system sooner rather than later .
The FBI has argued that Carnivore is a " well-focused " system that has been used in only a small number of cases .
The EPIC action , submitted to U.S. District Judge James Robertson , follows recent FOIA requests on Carnivore by both EPIC and the American Civil Liberties Union .
The ACLU also sent a letter to Congress last month , urging lawmakers to amend outdated electronic privacy laws .
The ACLU proposed incorporating law enforcement tools like Carnivore into any revision , since the ability to intercept and analyze email on a wide scale poses a threat to personal privacy .
The FBI maintains that while Carnivore is designed to specifically target individual email transmissions , the agency does not read the unrelated email that is caught in Carnivore 's electronic net .
Carnivore monitors email traffic through Internet service providers and intercepts the electronic mail of criminal suspects .
By catching unrelated email before it processes the information , EPIC and other privacy advocates worry about the civil liberty implications for customers of ISPs where Carnivore has been installed .
Attorney General Janet Reno said late last month that Carnivore would be reviewed by a group of experts .
But EPIC wanted a full public review of the system , seeking all Carnivore records from the FBI , including the underlying source code and information about any limitations restricting the agency 's use of the system .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Harvard Fights ' Not ' Knockoff

Harvard University hopes that notHarvard.com will not be notHarvard.com for long .
The school has countersued notHarvard.com , a Web education technology startup , and is asking a court in Boston to stop the company from using the school 's trademark in its domain name .
" We believe that the Harvard name belongs to Harvard and we 're taking appropriate steps to make sure it stays that way , " said Joe Wrinn , a Harvard University spokesperson .
A spokeswoman for notHarvard would not comment on the countersuit except to say that the company is aware that it has been filed .
In March of 2000 , the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office rejected the company 's trademark registration application for notHarvard.com .
The USPTO determined that notHarvard.com is too similar to Harvard , and the overlap of services proffered by the two entities is too great .
" The similarity of the marks and relatedness of the services is so great as to create a likelihood of confusion among consumers , therefore , registration must be refused pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Trademark Act , " wrote a USPTO examining attorney in March .
Although the company has not appealed the denial of their application , notHarvard last week sued Harvard in Texas .
The company asked the judge to declare its domain name and trademarks valid and protectable .
When Wired News reported about notHarvard 's suit earlier this week , the domains notharvard.net and notharvard.org were not registered .
They have since been registered , though a whois search did not determine the identity of the registrant .
Wrinn said that domain names with " Harvard " in them are not rare .
" A recent search showed that there are over 1,400 domain names that use ' Harvard ' in them , " Wrinn said . "
We get most concerned with the sites that involve education and research . "
The university is in the slow process of sorting out which domains to address with legal action , Wrinn said , adding the many are resolved with a simple cease-and-desist letter .




Brand New Life for Linuxcare

Linuxcare , a company that provides support services for Linux operating system users , got a fresh cash infusion this week .
The significance ?
It comes three months after a withdrawn IPO , layoffs , and executive departures cast doubt on the firm 's long-term viability .
On Wednesday , the San Francisco company said it secured $ 30 million in new investments from a group of backers that included Lehman Brothers , Motorola , Sun Microsystems , and the venture arm of Dell Computers .
Executives said they plan to use the money to expand their operations and to keep the firm afloat until it considers another stab at the public market , possibly next year .
The company had filed to go public in early March -- when the market for tech stocks and Linux-related companies in particular was at its peak -- but withdrew a month later when faced with a cooling stock market and the departure of its chief executive officer .
" By taking this money , it 's really given Linuxcare the freedom to select when we want to do the IPO , " said David Sifry , Linuxcare 's co-founder and chief technical officer .
The company had raised $ 33 million in December and had been using that money to run the business .
Linuxcare 's main business is providing support services and training for companies that use the Linux operating system .
Its recent focus , Sifry said , has been in finding ways to automate more of its services , so the company can take on more clients without having to substantially increase the size of its staff .
The company currently has about 200 employees and no immediate plans to hire many more .
Linuxcare laid off about 70 employees in April after its IPO was withdrawn , and its chief executive , Fernand Sarrat , departed .
Sifry said the company is still in the process of interviewing new CEO candidates .
Meanwhile , the rest of the Linux sector has been losing much of its luster within the investment community .
Publicly traded Linux firms like Red Hat Software and VA Linux have seen their shares slide to about a 10th of their former highs .
RHAT
LNUX
Gartner Group analyst George Weiss said the downturn in Linux stocks is n't an indication of slower industry growth so much as of increased competition .
As more large- and mid-sized corporations take an interest in the open source operating system , a number of more established firms including IBM are emerging as rivals to Linux companies .
" It 's not necessarily indicative that the Linux community has gone down the tubes , " Weiss said of the stock downturn .
However , Linux firms will have to move quickly to regain the confidence of investors , whose patience , he said , " is now very short-fused . "




IBM School Ties Linux With Sash

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
What 's the ideal summer vacation for a student programmer ?
The hands-down -- and hands-on -- answer has to be IBM 's Extreme Blue program .
And it works pretty well for Big Blue : this summer , the computer heavyweight managed to score a fairly impressive application for its Sash technology .
Extreme Blue is a summer internship program on both coasts that provides computer science students with the chance to create and build new software for emerging technologies like Linux .
It also allows IBM access to talented people who might not normally have thought of Big Blue as their employer of choice .
IBM refers to the program as an " academic incubator . "
This year 's standout student project in the Boston area was " Sash For Linux . " an application based on IBM 's Sash technology .
Sash lets programmers create " Weblications " that look and operate just like standard computer programs .
The difference is that Sash-written programs are essentially just Web pages with additional programming logic embedded in them .
Using Sash , Web developers can build full-fledged applications using just their Web-page scripting skills and current website design programs .
Sash 's " Weblication Developer Kit " allows a programmer to create applications with nothing more than a text-editing application , although other programming options are also supported .
WDK
Sash programs can then be distributed and updated in exactly the same way as standard Web pages -- by loading them onto a server and making them available on a website .
Webplications can be fed through an Internet connection or downloaded directly onto a computer .
Unlike all other applications written in standard Web-based programming languages like JavaScript , XML and HTML , Sash applications can run outside a Web browser .
They integrate seamlessly with a user 's operating system .
Of course , Sash-style programming immediately evokes visions of security problems .
Its easy-to-use interface opens application development to all , some of whom might think it 's amusing to tuck a virus into the program code .
To protect against this , the Sash " Weblication Manager " provides verification tools that clearly state what a program 's contents are and how they will affect the computer it runs on .
Users can also choose to block any Weblication 's access to selected system resources .
The initial version of Sash was built for Windows and released on alphaWorks last October .
Plans are now being made to release " Sash for Linux " to the open source community with a posting to Gnome.org in mid-August .
Other Extreme Blue 2000 projects included a performance-monitoring tool for Linux applications and a Linux remote-install application .
IBM has not announced the release date for these tools as yet .
Participants in the Extreme Blue program typically range in age from 16-21 .
Each participant is assigned to a team with an IBM mentor , and each team focuses on developing a specific assigned application .
Participants receive free housing and transportation , along with a stipend for their work .
" These students are amazing -- what we are seeing is the future of Internet technology .
We look forward to working with them as they develop their careers , " said John Patrick , IBM 's vice president of Internet technology .
This year 's program participants graduated on Wednesday and received IBM ThinkPads as a parting gift from Big Blue .
IBM has plans to extend the Extreme Blue summer program into full-year internships .




Court to Address DeCSS T-Shirt

When can a T-shirt become a trade secret ?
When it tells you how to copy a DVD .
Such is the view of the DVD Copy Control Association , which expanded its list of defendants in a suit against DVD de-scrambler distributors to include Copyleft , purveyors of the popular OpenDVD T-shirt .
The shirt reveals the source code of the DVD de-scrambling utility DeCCS , which has prompted several lawsuits over copyright infringement .
" Coding is NOT a crime , " Copyleft 's online catalog says , " so express your disapproval of the DVD CCA and support OpenDVD advocacy . "
Steve Blood , the founder of Copyleft , said that his company received a summons on Monday , and that he has not decided how to respond to the action . "
It 's hard to know what to do when you 're just a tiny company in New Jersey , " Blood said .
He said he had contacted the Electronic Frontier Foundation , the nonprofit representing the more than 500 defendants in the DVD CCA 's suit , to discuss his legal options . "
We 're so small , we can n't just drag our own lawyers into this , " he said .
In January , Santa Clara Superior Court Judge William J. Elfing granted a preliminary injunction against 72 named defendants in the case , barring them from " posting or otherwise disclosing or distributing , on their websites or elsewhere , the DeCSS program , the master keys or algorithms of the Content Scrambling system , or any other information derived from this proprietary information . "
' CSS '
Since then , Copyleft has sold more than 4,000 OpenDVD T-shirts designed by Copyleft programmer Dom Bellizzi .
The company has donated more than $ 12,000 of the proceeds to the EFF 's defense fund , and Blood says that a second round of donations will be underway soon .
" Copyleft is distributing and selling T-shirts with DeCSS emblazoned on the back of them , " said Robert G. Sugarman , an attorney for the DVD CCA . "
That is every bit as much of a theft of the trade secrets as was the posting on websites which was enjoined by the courts . "
But Robin Gross , a staff attorney for the EFF , said that she " can n't help but think that this only hurts future case .
the DVD CCA 's
It underscores the obvious -- that this code is in fact speech that they are trying to squelch . "




Europe Puts the Heat on MS

BRUSSELS -- The European Commission , compounding Microsoft 's legal problems , warned the company Thursday it believes it is abusing its power to gain an edge in the global market for server software .
The EC said it had sent Microsoft a so-called statement of objections " for allegedly abusing its dominant position in the market for personal computer operating systems software by leveraging this power into the market for server software . "
Servers are powerful computers used to manage networks of other machines .
The move is the latest legal headache for Microsoft , which a U.S. judge earlier this year ordered to split into two .
The latest threat mirrors an investigation launched by the Commission in February into whether Microsoft had designed parts of its new Windows 2000 package in order to extend its dominance in personal computer operating systems into server operating systems and electronic commerce .
Microsoft has two months to reply to the allegations and may request a hearing to present its arguments .
If it does not satisfy the Commission 's concerns , Microsoft could be fined up to 10 percent of its worldwide revenues , although such a large fine has never been imposed .
The Commission action came after Sun Microsystems alleged that Microsoft had breached EU antitrust rules by discriminatory licensing and by refusing to supply essential information on its Windows operating system .
Sun chairman Scott McNealy has been a major proponent of breaking up Microsoft .
" Sun alleges that the launch of Windows 2000 on February 17 , 2000 was a final step in Microsoft 's strategy to strengthen the effects of its refusal to supply interface information with the intention of driving all serious competitors out of the server software market , " the Commission said in a statement .
" The Commission believes that Microsoft gave information only on a partial and discriminatory basis to some of its competitors , " it added .
Microsoft said it had no immediate comment .
The Commission said Microsoft has about 95 percent of the market for personal computer operating systems .
It said PCs using Microsoft software can only communicate with server systems if Microsoft made available certain technical information to competitors producing those servers .
Without such information , computers running on Windows operating systems would have to use Windows server software too .
" We will not tolerate the extension of existing dominance into adjacent markets through the leveraging of market power by anti-competitive means and under the pretext of copyright protection , " EU Competition Commissioner Mario Monti said in a statement .
A Commission spokeswoman said the substance of the latest case is the same as that of the EC 's investigation into Windows 2000 , which they began in February .
But she said the case was based on an older complaint dating back to December 1998 and referred to earlier software packages such as Windows 95 , Windows 98 and NT 4.0 , as well as Windows 2000 .
The spokeswoman said the Commission " can not exclude that the two cases may be combined in the future , " adding the sending of a statement of objections indicated the Commission had " good evidence of misconduct . "
Microsoft faces other probes in Europe .
The Commission recently reopened an inquiry into its pricing policy in France , following a complaint by Micro Leader Business , and has said it is looking into other complaints against the company .
Last month , it forced Microsoft to change the terms of its purchase of a share in British cable company Telewest .
In 1998 , the Commission forced Microsoft to alter contracts with Internet service providers .
In 1997 it backed rival U.S. company Santa Cruz Operation , which had complained Microsoft was hindering its operations .
The Commission stressed its inquiry was different from the proceedings faced by Microsoft in the United States , which concern allegations Microsoft protected its dominance in PC operating systems through measures aimed at weakening competitors ' Internet browser systems .




Hot Times in ' Silicon Vineyard '

The $100-million acquisition of an upstart company in a remote Canadian city is drawing attention to a little-known area of British Columbia known as the Silicon Vineyard -- as well as to the self-taught engineer who gave the region its name .
Packeteer of Cupertino , Calif. , recently scooped up Workfire Technologies International of Kelowna , British Columbia , in an all-stock deal .
What Packeteer found attractive in the 20-person company is its Internet acceleration software that uses what Workfire calls " genetic caching " to speed Web pages to users ' computers .
Workfire 's software is designed to figure out the type of content , speed of access , and type of browser in use so that it can automatically adjust delivery speed in real time to a computer desktop .
Workfire 's software was named one of the top three new technologies at Comdex last year .
Packeteer hopes Workfire 's software will give it an edge in the competitive Internet traffic market , where routing speed and swift content delivery are critical for their ISP customers .
Tom Taylor , Workfire 's founder , says his software is designed to solve what he calls the Internet 's 8-second half-life . "
If you have n't rendered your Web page in eight seconds , you lose half your customers , " Taylor said .
Workfire 's acceleration software is supposed to increase the delivery speed of Web pages up to 100 percent . "
You reduce the size of the data , you improve the rendering speed and you improve the stickiness of your customer , " Taylor said , " so it 's a win-win all the way through . "
But the biggest winner of all in the Workfire deal is undoubtedly Taylor , who has a string of startups and sales to his name .
Taylor 's previous companies include MSound , which manufactures a digital signal processor-based sound system and was sold to Sierra Semiconductor ; Timespan , a builder of touch sensors , sold to Tanisys Technology ; and Chameleon Bridge Technologies , an Internet multimedia firm acquired by PeakSoft .
After Comdex , Workfire was besieged by investment bankers and venture capitalists who wanted to know more about the company with no revenues and a product still undergoing testing .
A banker led Packeteer to Kelowna and Workfire .
Taylor said the sale of Workfire made a lot of sense as an alternate to an IPO .
He will stay on at Packeteer as chief technical officer of the acceleration products division , which will continue to be located in the city of 120,000 .
Taylor , 37 , might sound like the man with the Midas touch , but he downplays his accomplishments . "
I 've done very well over the years , but Workfire was the first technical and business success , " he said . "
To ring the cash register to the tune of $ 100 million is in a different kind of league . "
His previous companies have sold for $ 1 million to $ 2 million each , and only after he made " every possible mistake an Uber-geek can make , " Taylor said .
Taylor dubbed B.C. 's lush Okanagan Valley the Silicon Vineyard after he moved to Kelowna from Calgary , Alberta , in 1997 .
What he had found was one of Canada 's best-kept secrets : a thriving high-tech community of some 500 companies in a stunning region blessed with mountains , lakes and balmy weather . "
A lot of people describe it as the nicest neighborhood in Seattle , " Taylor joked .
A 4-hour drive east of Vancouver , the vineyard boasts 6 daily nonstop flights to Seattle , a high-tech sector expanding at a rate of 20-35 percent annually , and a GPD in 1997 estimated at $ 120 million , the same as the local forestry sector 's .
It 's also on the telecommunications backbone running between Calgary and Vancouver , making bandwidth cheaper than in Seattle , Taylor said .
But the secret may be out of the bag now .
Taylor said Workfire 's acquisition raises the value of all the area 's technology firms . "
It 's a credibility thing that says the engineers and infrastructure in this direction are up to world-class standards , " he said .
Packeteer does n't disagree . "
The acquisition of Workfire really represents a major building block in Packeteer 's strategy for Internet application infrastructure , " said Todd Krautkremer , Packeteer 's vice president of worldwide marketing .
Yankee Group analyst William Hurley said that while Packeteer 's acquisition is a good fit with the company 's existing business , Packeteer must still demonstrate that the solution will work on complex networks with many routing points .
John McConnell , principal analyst with McConnell Associates , called the Workfire application a feasible solution for the so-called " last mile , " the difficult problem of extending the Internet 's speed to users ' desktops .




Apple Leaker May Stay Free

The purported mole who posted details of new Apple products to the Web over the past few months probably has a 50-50 chance of getting away with it , experts said .
Apple started the process on Wednesday of identifying the anonymous " John Doe " -- and up to two dozen accomplices -- who have been leaking details of new Apple products to Macintosh-oriented websites .
Although a number of people may be involved , Apple appears to be concentrating on someone using the online pseudonym " Worker_bee . "
Using an anonymous Yahoo Geocities account , Worker_bee posted details of a new dual processor machine and optical mouse to the AppleInsider site in February and June .
Apple has already issued Yahoo with an subpoena in an attempt to garner details of the accountholder , which , if Apple is lucky , will reveal the individual 's real name and address .
However , Elias Levy , a security expert at Security Focus , said if Worker_bee had any brains , he or she would have registered the account under a false name and not posted the product leaks from a machine at work .
The best Apple would then get is times and dates of account activity and an IP address , which would likely lead Apple 's investigators to Worker_bee's private ISP .
Internet Protocol
Armed with another subpoena issued against the ISP , investigators could then use the information to find the accountholder 's details .
Even if Worker_bee used another pseudonym , Levy said the ISP will have a record of the phone number used to access the account , which could also be used to tighten the net .
But a lot depends on the activity logs at the ISP , Levy said .
Some keep activity logs for years , some for just a few days .
" If the ISP keeps this kind of log , and most do , but some do n't , you could match the IP address to the right account , " he said . "
It 's then a matter of whether they gave their real name to the ISP . "
Levy said there was a only 50-50 chance that the various website and ISP logs would reveal Worker_bee's true identity .
Levy said it would be more difficult to trace Worker_bee if they used a phony name to register an account at a free ISP , like NetZero , which sometimes does little to validate the identities of users , Levy said .
Alternatively , if Worker_bee had hacking experience , he could have covered his tracks by hopping around the thousands of insecure machines connected to the Net , typically at small businesses and home offices .
" I doubt the person that did this was that paranoid , " said Levy . "
They probably did n't think Apple was going to take it this seriously . "




The Search for Apple 's ' Worm '

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Apple Computer 's announcement late Wednesday that it plans to sue anyone who posted details about new products prior to their release has lawyers mulling over the legal aspects of the computer company 's case .
In a lawsuit filed in a Santa Clara , California Superior Court , Apple alleged that photos of the new Dual Processor , PowerMac G4 , and ApplePro mouse were posted on websites in February , months before the products were officially released at the Macworld Expo in July .
The suit does not specify what websites posted the images and also does not name the defendants , referring to them only as " Doe 1-25 " .
Apple says it will amend the complaint when it gets more specific information .
" What they are doing here is using this suit to find out who exactly leaked the information , " said Jonathan Ayers , a New York copyright and trademark lawyer .
" They obviously think the leaks came from inside their organization , " he said . "
Now they will be able to subpoena Internet service providers to find out the real name of the person or people who registered the screen name ... used to post the details about Apple 's new products . "
Ayers said he heard that a subpoena has already been sent to Yahoo , since at least one of the John Does used a free Yahoo Geocities email account .
" The legal papers also state that Apple thinks at least one of the Does will continue to leak information , causing Apple great and irreparable harm and damage , " said Ayers .
Apple is asking for compensatory and exemplary damages and an injunction against any further publishing of details regarding unreleased products .
" In order to obtain an injunction , Apple needs to prove that they will be irreparably harmed , that they are likely to prevail on the merits at the trial , that monetary damages are not an adequate remedy , and that the granting of an injunction is in the public interest , " said Harvey Jacobs , of Jacobs &#038 ; Associates .
He said that Apple will n't have a hard time proving its case .
" Stock prices routinely move up or down in relation to the timing and nature of new product announcements and delivery dates , " Jacobs said . "
If information regarding these new products is released prematurely , then the buzz comes at the wrong time .
If the buzz dies out before they can capitalize on it by selling units , then there are damages . "
Jacobs said that while specific damage may be hard to assess , there are expert witnesses such as economists , market timing experts , and stock analysts who can all demonstrate that harm was caused by any leak .
Both Ayers and Jacobs dismiss the contention by some of Apple 's more strident critics , that this is essentially a free-speech issue .
The fact that the leak involved commercial information posted anonymously on the Web takes the First Amendment out of it , they say .
" I do not think there is much of an argument to be made that someone has the constitutional right to divulge another 's internal trade secrets for any reason , even if they just wanted to poke their proverbial finger in Apple 's eye , " Jacobs said . "
Maybe if we were talking about some national interest or national defense type of issue , where disclosure was clearly in the public 's interest -- sort of a Pentagon Papers circumstance .
But I do n't see anything close to that situation here . "
Apple has vigorously pursued companies and individuals in the past to protect its copyright and trademark .
Last year , Apple went after eMachines and Daewoo for ripping off its iMac design on some cut-rate computers .
In July , Apple CEO Steve Jobs threw a temper tantrum when an ATI press release was widely circulated two days before Macworld , disclosing that Apple would be presenting three new systems with ATI graphics chips in them .
Jobs retaliated by refusing to mention ATI or its products in his keynote presentation at Macworld , and cancelling a planned demonstration of the new products by an ATI executive .
But Apple may find itself on the other side of a trademark lawsuit if Cobalt Networks proceeds with its rumored lawsuit against the new Apple G4 Cube .
At issue is the name , which Cobalt maintains it already owns because of its 7-square-inch Qube Web server , which appeared in 1998 .
Cobalt itself became embroiled with Cube Computer over the name , but Cube subsequently withdrew and changed its name to Xand Corporation .
Apple 's own 8-inch G4 cube was introduced at Macworld last month .
" I really do n't see a Cobalt case going forward , " said Ayers , who noted that Job 's own NeXT Cube predates the Cobalt Qube by 10 years .




Sony Delays ?
' Play ' It Ai n't So

The European launch of the highly anticipated next-generation PlayStation 2 video game console has been pushed back from the original October 26 launch date to November 24 .
The company said that consumer demand in Japan -- where 3 million units have been shipped so far -- was the reason for the delay .
" PlayStations 2 's performance continues to exceed even the most optimistic forecasts in Japan .
This revised launch date allows us to provide increased quantities to retail day one , " said Chris Deering , president of Sony Corporation Entertainment Europe in a statement .
Sony said the PlayStation 2 will be available in North American stores on its original launch date of October 26 .
However , Trade industry magazine MCV on Friday reported that PlayStation 2 has been delayed .
An MCV staff member said that Sony delayed the launch in order to meet the overwhelming demand in the United States .
" They wanted to concentrate on America because of the demand there and would n't have enough machines to launch in the UK and Europe ; so they delayed it so they can have more machines , " an MCV staff member said .
One industry watcher said that the delay will spark anger among European PlayStation fans .
" I think European gamers will be furious and rightfully so , " said Doug Perry of IGN Games . "
But then again , it is just a game system . "
Perry thinks that Sony is concentrating on North America in an attempt to build a strong foundation in response to competitors Sega and Microsoft .
" Sony is trying to hammer down Dreamcast and set up its installed base and its market penetration well ahead of Xbox . "
Sega 's popular Dreamcast console has been out for almost one year while Xbox -- to be released in 2001 -- marks Microsoft 's foray into the highly profitable video game industry .
A store manager at a Dixons electronics store in London said there really have n't been many people inquiring about the new PlayStation .
" There has n't been that much demand , " said the employee , who declined to give her name .




FCC Wiretap Order Overturned

Privacy groups are cheering a federal appeals court decision that promises to curb the ability of law enforcement agencies to get access to Internet-style communications .
The decision also reins in the hungry maw of the government 's Carnivore monitoring system .
Tuesday 's ruling re-affirms in a digital context a long-held and constitutionally imposed restraint on the powers of law enforcement to monitor the contents of communications : that the " probable cause " standard must be met before a warrant is issued and a search can take place .
" If the government is going to intercept message content , it can n't get by with a lower standard , " said Jim Dempsey , senior staff counsel with the Center for Democracy and Technology .
The decision by Federal Circuit arises from an appeal made by privacy , civil liberties , telecommunications , and wireless industry groups all challenging the Federal Communications Commission 's implementation of 1994 federal wiretap law .
That law mandated that telecom carriers make their systems able to track calls on behalf of the cops , and provided a safe harbor for carriers that comply with industry standards in line with the Communciations Assistance for Law Enforcement Act .
The CALEA was drafted by Congress to help law enforcement agencies continue the surveillance abilities they had enjoyed with traditional telephone services .
The Telecommunications Industry Association crafted such a standard after consulting with law enforcement and industry experts .
But the FCC found the standard deficient because it did not meet the needs of law enforcement in a number of key areas .
Dempsey was quick to point out that the ruling will have a direct impact on the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's much-maligned Carnivore system .
Carnivore originally came to light at a meeting of telecommunications experts who were preparing a report for the FCC on standards for monitoring of Internet-style traffic .
The FBI , according to a draft version of that telecommunications industry report , pitched Carnivore as a system that would give law enforcement only the information it was authorized by a court to receive .
" In a pen register or trap-and-trace order only the relevant information from the target 's packets are stored to disk , " the draft stated . "
The filter program separates the relevant information from the target 's content and law enforcement then collects the information . "
The FBI 's Carnivore show-and-tell before the experts is consistent with its continuing rationale for using the system .
Carnivore , the FBI claims , may chew all the data on the network , but it only actually eats the information authorized by a court order .
" The Carnivore device provides the FBI with a ' surgical ' ability to intercept and collect the communications which are the subject of the lawful order while ignoring those communications which they are not authorized to intercept , " the FBI said on its website .




Will Crypto Feast on Carnivore ?

Do you encrypt your email before you send it ?
Probably not .
Most electronic mail traverses the Internet as unscrambled , easy-to-read packets of text .
Should it be intercepted and pieced together by reasonably skilled interlopers , your message is theirs for the reading .
The average Internet user has n't exactly seemed alarmed by that possibility , however .
" The story that only criminals are going to use encryption , because they 're the only ones that care , " said Marcelo Halpern , a partner with information technology and e-commerce law firm Gordon & Glickson .
goes
It 's only criminals , " or people who are otherwise hyper-vigilant about their privacy and do n't want their email to their dad to be read , " he said .
But in the aftermath of the FBI 's recently revealed Carnivore email surveillance system , email security companies are hoping they can convince average email users to seal their electronic envelopes -- and finally propel email encryption into a broader market .
" We 're seeing Carnivore pop up and become a real threat to people 's privacy and saying , ' Wait a second -- we could take this product Mithril , our secure server product , re-brand it and put it out there , " said Sean Steele , director of business development at security firm ChainMail .
The FBI uses Carnivore to tap electronic mail communications in criminal investigations .
The system is installed on the network of a suspect 's ISP , where it catches all users ' email before culling the target communications .
News about the system has been plentiful of late .
On Wednesday , the Electronic Privacy Information Center sued the FBI in search of details about Carnivore 's use .
Thus , ChainMail has " re-branded " its product as Antivore , to capitalize on the Carnivore , er , craze .
There 's also Privada , which claims its email encryption product allows an ISP to comply with an FBI subpoena without infringing on the privacy of its other customers .
But like Antivore , the Privada offering is not new , only newly spun in the aftermath of Carnivore .
" With the FBI 's Carnivore , it 's made our job a whole lot easier , " ChainMail 's Steele said . "
People are frightened of the possibility of having the government read their email . "
Steele said the FBI has asked the company for basic information on Antivore , and hopes their interest can even lead to a partnership . "
We 'd love to see the FBI embrace a technology like ours .
...
In fact , we 'd like to propose a bundling of Antivore and Carnivore . "
ChainMail is touting the results of a recent survey commissioned by an NBC affiliate in Richmond , Virginia .
In an informal telephone poll of approximately 500 area residents , surveyors found that 83 percent of respondents wanted their email encrypted .
But despite potential reaction to Carnivore , these companies will have to jumpstart a lackadaisical public appetite for secure email if they 're going to be successful .
The encryption that underlies email security products is far from new .
For years , companies have offered ISPs , networks , and end-users products that use encryption to secure data .
The most well known end-user email encryption product is the free PGP , or Pretty Good Privacy .
Still , the Internet-using public has n't bitten .
So can a new , ominous-sounding government snooping system really change that ?
" It 's the usual : ' If you have nothing to hide , why bother ?
question
' " said Halpern . "
Email is notoriously insecure .
...
But I do n't know whether Carnivore is going to scare the general populace into covering up and encrypting . "
Besides , encryption only goes so far in protecting against Carnivore , he said .




GM Food Fights at Full Boil

Novartis , one of the world 's largest providers of seeds for growing genetically modified food , confirmed that it has made its own food products GM-free .
The Swiss agribusiness and pharmaceuticals giant , which is at the forefront of GM crop technology , banned genetically modified ingredients from all its food brands worldwide beginning at the end of June this year .
The policy was revealed in a letter that Novartis sent to the Belgian office of Greenpeace , which attempted to persuade the environmental group to include Novartis on its list of GM-free food producers .
Novartis said it was aiming to guarantee that all its food products -- mostly health foods such as cereal bars -- were free of GM ingredients because of pressure from consumers .
Many consumers across Europe are distrustful of transgenic foods .
" With the current sentiment among the population towards GMOs , we have decided to take all necessary practical measures to avoid using genetically modified organisms in our products worldwide , " Novartis said in its letter .
Genetically Modified Organisms
Meanwhile , Greenpeace said it was suing Golden Harvest , the U.S. company at the heart of a French dispute over genetically modified organisms .
It accused the firm of deceiving customers and jeopardizing the French corn crop .
Greenpeace renewed a controversial issue , which the French government tried to lay to rest last month , by accusing U.S. seed company Golden Harvest of " deliberately commercializing and spreading in the environment unauthorized GMOs . "
" This dispersion was a blow to French maize producers who wanted to keep French maize free of transgenic , " said Arnaud Apoteker , head of Greenpeace France 's campaign against GMOs .
corn
material
" Golden Harvest deceived its customers and wanted to go around EU and French laws in forcing unauthorized GMOs .
Having done this , it risks compromising the reputation of all maize from southwest France , " Apoteker added .
Officials at Golden Harvest 's French headquarters were not immediately available for comment , but Golden Harvest 's top representative in France has previously described such allegations that the firm has acted in bad faith as " ridiculous . "
The problem came to light in June when the company , responding to media reports , said it had detected traces of GMOs in supposedly GMO-free corn seed it exported to France .
Reuters contributed to this report .




AOL Removes Netscape Feature

NEW YORK -- Netscape plans to remove a feature in its SmartDownload product that has irked some users enough to file a lawsuit , a spokesman said Friday .
A class-action lawsuit filed by a New Jersey photographer in July alleged the feature could be used for the surveillance of file transfers between websites and Internet users .
The suit sought at least $ 10,000 in damage per person .
Joshua Rubin , an attorney at Abbey , Gardy & Squitieri LLP , said Friday the complaint had been amended to include three more plaintiffs and could represent millions of others , including the websites and users .
The amendment was filed in the Southern District of New York .
" This is just rehash of old story on a lawsuit without merit , " said Andrew Weinstein , a spokesman for America Online , which bought Netscape in 1998 .
an
" The featured issue was included in the software in part for technology support purposes , but we 've never used or accessed any information about SmartDownload users or files and we plan to take it out of future versions of the product . "
The suit alleges the feature , which was part of the product when AOL purchased Netscape , " secretly transmits to Netscape the file name and location , along with an identification string unique to that Internet user . "
Consumers have become more concerned about online privacy recently due to fears personal information could fall into the wrong hands and on reports of hacker attacks and viruses .
Some companies use " cookies , " which help collect data from a hard drive , to target advertising or information sent to users , but they have usually stressed that the information is used only for corporate purposes and often does not connect a name to the data .
" There is a growing trend toward companies being sued for the online collection of information , " said David Sobel , general counsel for the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington .
" If a clear-cut legal stand governing online privacy , it would eliminate a lot of the problems and we would not end up with having a lot of lawsuits filed around the country . "
existed




Mafiaboy States His Plea

MONTREAL -- A 16-year-old Canadian hacker dubbed " Mafiaboy " pleaded not guilty Thursday to mischief charges related to the jamming of high-profile websites such as Yahoo , CNN.com , and eBay last February , crimes that served as a global wake-up call to the Internet 's fragility .
The Montreal-area teen , who can not be identified under a Canadian law designed to protect young offenders , appeared tense as his lawyer registered the not guilty pleas at the Quebec Court Youth Chamber in Montreal , shortly after the prosecution added 64 new charges against him .
Mafiaboy , whose computer skills have been described by police as far from extraordinary , was initially charged with two counts of mischief related to a cyber-attack in February on CNN.com .
More charges were laid after the Royal Canadian Mounted Police discovered evidence linking him to attacks the same day on five other websites -- Yahoo , Amazon.com , eBay.com , Dell.com , and Outlawnet.com .
The attacks flooded the sites with traffic and left them inaccessible for hours .
Ten of the new charges are for mischief against the five websites , and the 54 others relate to illegal use of computer systems , mainly in U.S. universities , Quebec prosecutor Louis Miville-Deschenes said outside the court .
" General deterrence will be a sentencing factor to be considered , " the prosecutor said . "
There was real physical damage to the computers of those companies , investigations had to be set up , there is a loss of confidence in the public toward this technology and loss of revenues . "
Mafiaboy was arrested by the Mounties in April after three months of extensive phone and computer taps and following tips from informants , the prosecutor said .
" There is direct evidence placing him behind the computer , " Miville-Deschenes said , adding the police investigation was now completed and no other person is likely to be charged .
" The evidence that had to be sifted through was overwhelming .
The evidence clearly shows that he bragged about his act " in Internet chat rooms and over the phone , he said .
If convicted , the teenager would face up to two years in a youth detention center .
He was released shortly after his arrest .
One of the bail conditions was that he not use a computer except for academic purposes and under the supervision of a teacher .
" He is trying to keep up a normal life as possible given the circumstances , " said the youth 's lawyer , Yan Romanowsky . "
He has a summer job in a restaurant , school is starting in September and he has bail conditions he has to obey . "
Mafiaboy will appear in court again on September 28 , when a trial date will be set , Romanowsky said .
" So far , it 's only Canadian accusations .
We have not heard that there would be any American accusations , " he said .
The February attacks alarmed Internet users around the globe , cost websites millions of dollars in revenue and shook the electronic-commerce industry because of the apparent ease with which major sites were jammed .




E-Sales ' Will Be a Monster '

CHICAGO -- U.S. states stand to lose $ 11 billion in sales tax revenues in 2003 due to sales over the Internet , a tax economist told state treasury officials on Friday .
Donald Bruce , a professor at the University of Tennessee , told the State Debt Management Network of the National Association of State Treasurers that while the problem of untaxed Internet sales was now worrisome for states , " On the horizon , this will be a monster . "
A study he released earlier this year projected sales tax revenue losses in 2003 ranging from $ 17.1 million in Vermont to $ 1.49 billion in California .
Adding in other revenue losses -- such as from catalog and other sales that fail to register on states ' tax radar screens -- total revenue losses could reach $ 24 billion in 2003 , he said .
Bruce said states have historically responded to revenue losses by increasing the sales tax rate .
His study showed rates would have to rise about 0.5 percent to 1.0 percent by 2003 to make up for the losses .
Jesse Ancira , director of tax administration in the Texas comptroller 's office , said his state , which collects 55 percent of its tax revenue from sales tax , lost about $ 50 million to e-commerce in 1999 .
" We 're not shaking in our boots yet in Texas , but we think this is a serious issue , " he said .
Ancira said Texas was also struggling to make its sales tax collection equitable for both tangible and digitalized goods .
He added that sales tax collections have also been hurt by the legislative passage of sales tax holidays for some purchases in the state .
" The point is we are giving money back to taxpayers , and if we continue to do that and couple that with a rising loss in revenues from e-commerce , at what point does it put us in a bind ? " he said .




Seven Deadly Email Thoughts

Should you worry about someone reading your private email ?
Although there may not be much motivation for hiding your thank-you note to your sister-in-law , email certainly has its dangers .
Those dangers are especially obvious in the workplace , according to Employment Law Learning Technologies .
The company , which advises businesses regarding the legal liabilities in daily business conduct , released a list of top email no-no 's this week , " The Seven Most Common Misconceptions About E-mail . "
The company cites actions against employees at Dow Chemical and The New York Times as examples of the risks employees take when they use the Internet for Web browsing and email .
The list of misconceptions is based on cases handled by ELT 's parent company , employment and labor law firm Littler Mendelson .
Emails can be deleted .
Reality : By using utilities or by checking recipients ' workstations , they can almost always be recovered .
Emails get " lost " among the millions being sent around the Internet .
Reality : Sophisticated search tools , as the FBI 's Carnivore program illustrates , let their users find almost any email from anyone .
Emails go to the people you address them to .
Reality : Emails are often distributed broadly to people you often do n't know because of forwarding .
Comments made in email are n't that powerful .
Reality : Even if unintended by the sender , certain comments or idle remarks can be perceived as threats or harassment .
For example , referring to a coworker as a " dinosaur " can become the basis for an age discrimination lawsuit .
You can send emails from work in a personal capacity .
Reality : When sent over company systems , the law recognizes emails as official company communications regardless of the content .
Potential exposure is created each time an employee uses corporate email to send personal messages to friends .
Private email messages are private .
Reality : Emails can be accessed as part of an investigation and cause liability for employers .
Your identity is protected through email communications .
Reality : It is extremely easy to duplicate someone 's identity for the purpose of sending fraudulent email messages .




Monsanto to Offer Free Rice Tech

Genetically modified foods giant Monsanto says it will offer its vitamin A-enhanced rice technologies for free in an effort to improve nutrition in developing countries .
Monsanto , which has sued farmers for allegedly using its seeds improperly , announced the move at an agricultural biotechnology conference in Chennai , India , on Thursday .
The company also said it has launched a new website , www.rice-research.org , where researchers can mine a database of the rice genome , which Monsanto decoded in April .
" We hope that sharing fundamental data about the rice genome and enabling the development of solutions for vitamin A deficiency will lead to a wide variety of discoveries that enhance food security and nutrition throughout the developing world , " said Robert T. Fraley , chief technology officer of Monsanto .
In July , the National Academy of Sciences and six other science organizations around the world urged companies to license their proprietary technologies to the developing world .
The offer of a free license will allow researchers in developing countries to use Monsanto 's proprietary technologies to create their own crops of genetically modified rice .
According to some , the gesture is an " important step in the positive involvement of the private sector in international rice research , " said Ron Cantrell , director general of the International Rice Research Institute .
" It is essential that institutions like IRRI and companies like Monsanto continue to look for ways to work together to the benefit of poor rice farmers and consumers , " he said in a statement . "
There should be no doubt that this offer by Monsanto is an important step in this process . "
But there appears to be some doubt .
A lack of vitamin A can lead to blindness and even death .
But critics say the apparent altruism could be dangerous .
" A magic-bullet solution which places beta-carotene into rice with potential health and ecological hazards , while leaving poverty , poor diets , and extensive monoculture intact , is unlikely to make any durable contribution to well-being , " said Dr. Miguel Altieri , an agriculture expert and professor at the University of California at Berkeley .
Instead , Altieri suggests that leafy green plants rich in vitamin A , as well as other missing vitamins and nutrients , are readily available in and around rice paddy fields in many developing countries and should be re-introduced into the diet of impoverished people .
" People do not present Vitamin A deficiency because rice contains too little vitamin A , but rather because their diet has been reduced to rice and almost nothing else , " Altieri said .
By concentrating instead on a more varied diet , Altieri said developing countries could address vitamin A deficiency as well as many other dietary illnesses .
Monsanto spokesman Gary Barton scoffed at the criticism , saying critics like Altieri " can n't find anything good to say . "
" If there are so many answers , then what have they been doing for the past six years ? "
Barton asked .




There 's a Penguin on Your Wrist

NEW YORK -- International Business Machines Corp. said Monday that researchers are running the Linux operating system on a prototype wristwatch device , in a research test designed to show that Linux can be used as the basic software on the smallest gadgets .
" Designed to communicate wirelessly with PCs , cell phones and other wireless-enabled devices , the ' smart watch ' will have the ability to view condensed email messages and directly receive pager-like messages , " IBM said in a statement .
However , adults wanting a Dick Tracy-style wrist gadget will be disappointed .
IBM does not have plans to commercialize the Linux watch itself , said Nick Bowen , IBM 's director of computing utilities .
" Our view is more of an enterprise view than a consumer gadget view , " he said .
" This is just research prototype , " said IBM spokeswoman Takako Yamakura . "
Some say Linux can not be scaled down .
This is just to show Linux is capable of doing this . "
The Linux operating system is seen as an alternative to Microsoft Corp. 's Windows operating system , and is especially popular with programmers for its open source code , which allows programmers to develop and tinker with programs .
Bowen said the watch , which weighs about 1.5 ounces , demonstrates that Linux could be used in some of the smallest devices in the future , perhaps in medical sensors on patients , location awareness or even banking .
" Several benefits accrue from the use of Linux in small pervasive devices , " IBM said in the statement . "
The availability of source code and a well-understood application programming environment makes it easy for students , researchers , and software companies to add new features and develop applications . "
Linux , which was developed by Finnish programmer Linus Torvalds , is used for many basic functions of Web sites , but is not yet considered mature enough for heavier business tasks .
IBM has been working to develop the system for everything from the wristwatch to supercomputers .
" With Linux rapidly becoming an industry standard , it 's important that developers be able to create new applications across all platforms , including pervasive devices , and the intent of IBM 's research is to further that work , " IBM said .
IBM plans to demonstrate the watch at Linux World in San Jose next week .




Hacker Finds Hole in Netscape

Security expert Dan Brumleve has found a gaping hole in Netscape Communicator .
Brumleve , who discovered the " Cache Cow " flaw and its progeny in 1998 , has created a pernicious Java applet he calls " Brown Orifice , " which provides Internet access to a user 's local files .
Exploiting problems in Netscape 's implementation of Java , Brumleve 's applet running on a Netscape browser turns a computer into a file server ; it delivers files on the computer 's hard drive to anyone on the Internet .
" This is potentially one of the worst things that can happen in browser security , " Brumleve said of Brown Orifice , which is named after the infamous hacker utility Back Orifice .
He explained that the applet could be embedded in any Web page ; if a surfer accesses the page using a Netscape browser , the applet will run in the background , surreptitiously providing access to the computer 's files .
Worse , the applet can be initiated through email messages that are read on Netscape Mail , Brumleve said .
" Somebody can send you a hostile mail message , and you can send them back all the data on your computer .
So this is certainly enough to cause a catastrophe , " Brumleve said , comparing the applet to the Melissa virus .
Using the test link Brumleve provided on his website announcing the hole , Wired News was able to corroborate Brumleve 's claims .
The applet , running on Communicator 4.74 on a Windows 98 PC , provided full access to the PC 's files ; it persisted until Communicator was shut down .
Brumleve said that the applet would run on versions 4.5 to 4.7 of Netscape Communicator , on Windows-based , and Linux-based computers .
Netscape officials said that they are aware of the problem , and that engineers are working on a fix .
" We plan to make a patch available , but in the interim , users can protect themselves by simply turning off Java , " said Andrew Weinstein , a spokesman for the company .
To turn off Java , a Netscape user should click on the " Edit " menu , choose " Preferences , " and then choose the " Advanced " option .
Then , users should make sure that the " Enable Java " option is not checked .
Weinstein added that in a few months , the company will release version 6 of its browser , which is not vulnerable to the security hole .
Preview Release 2 of Netscape 6 , which does not contain the vulnerability , is available now at the company 's website .
Some in the hacker community speculated on Brown Orifice 's non-malicious uses .
The applet can be easily used as a Napster-like file sharing utility , Brumleve said , giving a community of users access to files on each other 's computers .
Brumleve spent Saturday at a San Francisco Internet cafe showing off Brown Orifice and said many people there were using it for file-trading purposes .
Brumleve discovered the bug in Netscape while " messing around " with Java last week .
He said that once he realized the flaw , " it did n't take very long to find out how to make the program .
I was surprised that nobody has done it until now . "
Since developing the applet , Brumleve 's site has received more than 200,000 hits , and thousands of people have downloaded the Brown Orifice source code .
Brumleve 's applet exploits two different flaws in Java , he said .
One is specific to the Java language : This hole " allows Java to open a server that can be accessed by arbitrary clients , " Brumleve wrote on his site .
The second hole is more dangerous , and is only found in Netscape : It " allows Java to access arbitrary URLs , including local files . "
" At this point it 's very unsafe to run Netscape Mail , or even use Netscape as a browser on untrusted sites , " Brumleve said .




Canada Probes BBS-Using Broker

A Canadian brokerage firm is under investigation in what is believed to be the first-ever look into stock-market manipulation through an Internet bulletin board by a broker .
The Quebec Securities Commission confirmed Friday that it is investigating an unnamed broker at TD Evergreen , the brokerage arm of the Toronto-Dominion Bank .
The commission launched its investigation after it received a complaint from another member of the Montreal-based , French-language chat room and finance forum Webfin.com .
A user , Stephane Carey , initially contacted the commission with concerns over postings made by a pseudonymous board participant calling himself Patrick Gravel .
In late July , Gravel began promoting a stock for DelSecur Corp. , a company with offices in Washington and Montreal .
Gravel told the bulletin board that the U.S. National Security Agency would hold a press conference to make an important announcement about DelSecur 's unique anti-hacking technology , which uses a proprietary authentication process based on biological data collected from people 's " finger abstract images . "
NSA
When other bulletin board members scoffed at the postings , Gravel insisted in further messages that the announcement would amount to " something of significance , " and asserted his information came from a well-informed and " very credible source . "
Gravel also wrote that he had picked up another 1,000 shares of DelSecur , which trades under the symbol DLSC on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board in the U.S.
Last April , the NSA signed a confidentiality agreement with DelSecur in which the company agreed to disclose its delID technology to the NSA for testing and evaluation as a means of protection against hacking .
This week , DelSecur moved quickly to distance itself from TD Evergreen and Webfin.com .
It issued a news release , stating that " The Corporation has no business relationship with TD Evergreen .
DelSecur Corp. , its directors and officers bear no responsibility and do not answer for any information made in a chat room on Webfin.com or any other site . "
Denis Dube , a spokesperson with the Quebec Securities Commission , said one of its investigators traced Gravel 's email to a TD Evergreen office in Ste .
Foy , Quebec .
He said he was n't certain if or when charges would be filed .
Among the questions to be answered , Dube said , are whether the broker possessed insider information , whether he was just creating rumors , or whether he was trying to pump the stock for his own clients . "
We have to investigate in detail and then if there 's any violation of securities law , we 'll take the appropriate steps , " Dube said .
Dube pointed out that while they had traced the email back to the broker 's computer , they also had no proof as to whether the broker himself sent them . "
Maybe somebody else was using this &#91;Internet&#93 ; address , " Dube said .
TD Bank spokeswoman Lisa McCarney said the bank is working with the commission on the investigation , as well as conducting its own internal investigation . "
We take these matters very seriously , " she said .
" All of our TD Evergreen employees are governed by rigorous compliance regulations , including specific guidelines about information they impart in their capacity as an employee , " McCarney said .
A new disclaimer has gone up at the Webfin.com site , warning that information posted on the boards should not replace personal research into companies and stocks . "
Be particularly vigilant if the sources are n't verifiable , " the disclaimer adds .
Webfin.com is owned by Montreal Internet company , Netgraphe .
Executives at Netgraphe could n't be reached for comment .
Dube said the commission tells investors to exercise caution when they take part in bulletin boards and chat rooms .
The commission publishes a brochure entitled Your Investment and the Internet , which essentially tells investors not to believe everything they find online .
A spokeswoman at the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission Division of Enforcement offices in Washington , said she was n't aware of any instances in the U.S. where a broker had been investigated for using bulletin boards to pump stocks .




Latest Palm Fingers Newbies

While Handspring and Pocket PC manufacturers try to make their handheld devices the " do-it-all " mobile wireless platform , Palm is hoping that less will equal more demand for a new crop of handhelds .
While the Santa Clara , California , PDA maker and its partners continue to add new software and services for its wireless Internet-enabled Palm VIIx , its latest product targets an audience that the company believes requires more simplicity -- women and first-time device owners .
On Monday Palm launched its least expensive handheld to date , the M100 -- a $ 149 pocket organizer .
The unit replaces the low-end Palm IIIe , which many online retailers no longer carry .
The M100 weighs 4.4 ounces , has a black plastic hourglass figure , and a removable face plate which , for an additional $ 19.95 , can be swapped for any of seven colors including yellow , green , silver , sky blue , navy blue , fluorescent green , or neon orange .
The M100 's storage resembles a woman 's change purse , and the docking cradle is rounder than its predecessors .
Besides its more fashionable looks , the M100 differs from the Palm IIIe in that it contains an alarm clock and displays the time digitally through the window of the faceplate .
The M100 's low price tag , simplicity , and colors could make it a challenger to the Handspring Visor , though Palm denies its trying to compete directly with Handspring 's brainchild .
" We did n't go out and say what is and how can we do it better , " said Paul Osborne , a senior product manager at Palm . "
the Visor
We 're trying to go out after new users that we have n't targeted .
We never targeted entry level customers . "
Palm estimates that 65 to 70 percent of handheld device users are men .
The company said that although the Palm V was by far its best selling handheld , it appeared too " fragile " and complex to entice first time users .
Palm representatives also said that introducing a beginner 's handheld with wireless capabilities -- like the ability to download MP3 files -- would be an " intimidating proposition , " even to young users .
" is the most durable Palm we 've made , " said John Cook , senior director of product marketing for Palm .
The M100
Research by Handspring indicates that the two companies could indeed be battling for the same novice users .
The company said that 68 percent of the 2,000 Visor owners they surveyed were first-time pocket organizer users .
A company spokesman does not attribute the Visor 's success to mere simplicity .
" With Visor , for instance , we introduced colors and an aggressive price point , " said Greg Shirai , product line manager for Handspring . "
These factors made Visor more attractive to people that had n't considered buying a handheld before . "
Shirai said the Springboard expansion modules including digital cameras and music players , has enabled the company to reach " a more diverse audience , which includes women and younger people . "
Last week supermodel Claudia Schiffer announced she would sell her own version of Palm pilots on her website ,
Palm is also emulating a marketing campaign by Volkswagen Beetle distributors , by offering the Palm V in champagne and " millennium blue " only on the Internet .




PlayStation 2 : Worth the Wait ?

The Japanese version of PlayStation 2 , which has been available in that country since March , has been getting poor reviews by some gamers in the United States who have played the system .
That may not bode well for the highly anticipated American launch scheduled in October .
A lack of software titles , less-than-spectacular game play , and a steep price tag are gamers ' main reasons for disappointment .
" The software is absolutely awful , " said Rich Depping of online import retailer VideoGameDepot . "
The load times are awful .
The games look like they spent five minutes putting it together to get it out . "
A few serious game freaks were so amped about the new PlayStation that they flew to Japan , where Sony began sales of the Japanese version on March 6 .
Others had friends living abroad ship it to them .
But the majority of U.S. residents use online importers like VideoGameDepot .
Bare-bones systems with one game initially ran for about $ 700 , but have been dropping due to poor demand .
Import dealers say that sales have dropped off considerably following the initial buying frenzy .
VideoGameDepot currently sells the Japanese PlayStation 2 for around $ 500 .
" We had a lot of sales at first but when people realized how awful the product was died off , " Depping said . "
sales
Our customers are horribly disappointed . "
Depping , who has used the new system quite a bit , said that the general consensus among customers after getting the PS2 is , " I paid $ 700 for this ? "
The system just does n't compare to others , he said .
For example , PlayStation 2 's version of " Dead or Alive II " is n't as good as the one on Sega Dreamcast , and PlayStation 's " Driving Emotion Type S" ranks among the worst driving games Depping said he 's ever played on any platform .
One industry observer said that PlayStation 2 could have been a better product , but the company sacrificed quality to get the product into stores quicker .
" They rushed , they made promises , they did n't use 50 percent of the PlayStation 's power and they 'll admit as much , " said Doug Perry of IGN Games . "
even
I think under the circumstances they did quite well with the time and materials they had . "
A Sony spokeswoman would n't address specific criticisms of the console 's quality , she did imply that the U.S. version would be better .
" Although there is some crossover between the Japanese and U.S. content , it 's not indicative of the U.S. launch and we hope to provide details at a later date , " said Molly Smith , a spokeswoman for Sony Corporation Entertainment America .




Big Job Cuts in July

U.S. corporations announced a whopping 63,967 planned job cuts -- 270-percent higher than in June which makes it the largest number in 17 months and may be indications of a slowing in the economy , reported the international outplacement firm Challenger , Gray & Christmas .
" The spike in job cuts may be another strong indication that the economy is coming back down to earth , " said John A. Challenger , CEO of Challenger , Gray and Christmas . "
July represents a major reversal following months where employers were essentially hoarding workers . "
July 's announced cuts were 17 percent higher than the figure of 54,709 a year ago .
Companies in the financial sector led the upward trend in layoffs , having sheared 13,687 jobs ; the services sector followed with 11,434 ; and automotives trimmed 8,487 jobs .
- - -
Arthur Andersen exec resigns : Jim Wadia , Arthur Andersen 's chief executive , resigned hours after an international arbitrator ended a long-running battle between the accounting firm and its sister organization , Andersen Consulting .
Wadia , 52 , said he would take early retirement but gave no clear reason .
Wadia became Arthur Andersen 's worldwide managing partner , the firm 's equivalent of chief executive , in August 1997 .
The firm named Louis Salvatore interim worldwide managing partner until it could appoint a successor for Wadia .
Wadia 's resignation came just hours after a Paris-based arbitrator paved the way for Andersen Consulting to become an independent entity without any future obligations to Arthur Andersen .
Arthur Andersen will keep $ 1 billion in past payments from its consulting arm but is not entitled to the termination payments of up to $ 14.5 billion it had claimed , Gamba said .
The ruling ended a bitter , decade-long fight between the two organizations .
Andersen Consulting over the years contributed as much as 15 percent of its annual profits to Arthur Andersen .
- - -
Digital bookstore : Online bookseller Barnesandnoble.com is teaming up with Microsoft to open the first major Internet store selling digital books .
The books would be available for downloading and reading on a screen or in single paperback copies printed on demand .
The move comes as publishers and booksellers are grappling to map out the new territory for digital books .
Some publishers are hoping they will provide a new avenue of growth in a nearly flat business .
Barnesandnoble.com shares surged in early trade .
The stock was up 1-3/8 , or 37 percent , to 5-1/8 at mid-morning and was among volume and percentage-gain leaders on the Nasdaq market .
The shares are down from 12-month high of 23-1/2 .
The stock fell more than 25 percent on Friday , pummeled by the company 's failure to meet Wall Street forecasts for second-quarter results .
- - -
Playboy Net 's loss : Playboy Enterprises said its financial loss widened in the second quarter , mostly due to increased investments in its Playboy online division .
Playboy reported a second-quarter net loss of $ 5.9 million , or 24 cents a share , compared with a net loss of $ 3.0 million , or 13 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter .
Second-quarter revenues of $ 77.2 million in 2000 were essentially flat compared with $ 77.8 million in 1999 .
The company 's entertainment group reported second-quarter 2000 earnings of $ 15.6 million , compared with $ 15.2 million in the comparable 1999 period .
Revenues declined slightly to $ 25.9 million from $ 26.2 million as higher revenues from international TV and domestic TV networks were more than offset by lower worldwide home video and movie revenues , the company said .
The company said it expects advertising pages to be up 6 percent in the third quarter on strong newsstand sales of the August issue featuring Darva Conger , the unhappy bride from the Who Wants to Marry a Millionaire ?
TV show .
- - -
Software spinoff : Computer Associates International said it would spin off its software and services businesses , and that it would later spin off its desktop accounting .
The business-software maker also said it promoted Sanjay Kumar to CEO and president .
Kumar was previously president and chief operating officer .
Founder and longtime CEO Charles Wang will continue as chairman , overseeing new ventures to unlock value to shareholders .
The first business to be spun off would be the application service providers , which provide remote access to software programs .
ASPs
The business will be called iCan-ASP , but it was not yet determined if the stock would be a tracking stock or other issue .
Nancy Li , chief technology officer of CA , will become iCan-ASP 's CEO .
The Islandia , N.Y. , company said it would continue to focus on its core business software for network security , data-storage management and programs meant to improve predictions of buying patterns .
- - -
Briefly told : Broadcom , a maker of circuits for telecommunications , agreed to buy Silicon Spice , a developer of semiconductor technology , for about $ 1 billion in stock ...
Business-software maker Infinium Software said it would cut about 18 percent of its workforce worldwide as part of its effort to reduce costs and boost revenue .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Miracle Engine 's Tank Is Empty

For the last six years , a small startup company in Youngstown , Ohio , has been promising to bring to market a revolutionary engine that would provide unlimited power for free , requiring no fuel and producing no pollution .
Too good to be true ?
Well , it seems so .
Entropy Systems now says it has no immediate plans to release Entropy Engines , despite raising about $ 3.5 million from private investors and hawking the breakthrough technology in the media since at least 1994 .
Instead , Sanjay Amin , the engine 's inventor and Entropy System 's CEO , said he will continue to develop the technology away from the limelight while concentrating on a new venture : Abika.com , an online e-book retailer .
According to the story Amin has told to numerous reporters and potential investors over the years , Entropy Engines will revolutionize the energy industry .
The engines require no fuel , relying only on ambient heat energy in the atmosphere , which they would efficiently convert into power .
Entropy Engines would power all kinds of devices , from cooling systems to generators and automobiles .
They would be free to run and would n't create any pollution , directly or indirectly .
In September last year , Amin grabbed international headlines with the announcement that he was on the verge of releasing the first Entropy Engines for boats , lawnmowers , and electrical generators .
Amin claimed to have developed a working prototype and that the first products would be on sale by early 2000 .
At the time , he planned an outboard motor for small boats , simply because it was the easiest market to break into , he said .
Later refinements of the engine would generate more power , possibly enough to run a car , he said .
Despite his fantastic claims , Amin appeared to have the backing of respected academics and savvy businessmen .
The company , which was incorporated in 1994 , was launched with the help of Youngstown State University 's Cushwa Center for Entrepreneurship , with the center 's director , Charles Cushwa , an early cheerleader .
According to Amin , he raised close to $ 3.5 million from 49 private investors in three rounds of financing .
The technology had been patented in the United States , Europe , and Australia , Amin said , and tested by experts at the Ford Motor Company , Youngstown , Purdue , and Pennsylvania State .
Not surprisingly , given the claims , Amin 's Entropy Engine drew a lot of attention , generating articles in newspapers and magazines around the world .
But now that 2000 has rolled around and Entropy Engines are still not on the market , Wired News contacted Amin for an update on the company 's plans .
After what appeared to be some initial reluctance to talk , Amin said last September 's announcement had been premature and that the Entropy Engine still was n't ready for prime time .




How Demos Will Upstage GOP

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
The Republicans may have had the honor of hosting the first convention to be broadcast over the Internet , but Democrats say that their big show will be the real E-convention .
The 2000 Democratic National Convention will be the first political convention to utilize electronic voting , virtual reality , complete start-to-finish Web-based coverage , and Palm Pilot-powered information services , said Democratic National Convention Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe .
DNCC
Using technology provided by Election.com , delegates will electronically cast their votes for a presidential candidate .
Ballots will then be tallied and uploaded to the convention website within seconds .
" Electronic voting is part of our future .
We are proud that the 2000 Democratic National Convention will feature so much cutting-edge technology , " Democratic National Committee Chairman Joe Andrew said in an Internet press briefing .
The DNCC will also supply delegates with conference and city information via Palm handheld computers and technology developed by Aether Software and Eventcentric .
The Aether/Eventcentric application lets convention attendees update and share information by connecting their Palm Pilots to any of the 96 synchronization cradles that will be located throughout the convention floor .
Delegates and other attendees can also use the Palms to create personalized schedules , access news and convention speeches , discover information about other delegates , participate in interactive event surveys and evaluations , or locate a nearby restaurant .
The application 's content is also being translated into Spanish , and the possibility of providing the data in other languages is under consideration .
The DNCC has invited convention attendees to BYOP to the convention -- Aug. 14-17 at Los Angeles ' Staples Center -- but will also provide the handheld devices to 250 delegates and state chairpeople to try with the option to buy .
Bring Your Own Palm
Those who can n't manage to buy , beg , or borrow a Palm Pilot will still be able to access much of the information at any of the 90 information kiosks throughout the convention center .
Delegates will be furnished with " smart cards " and with a swipe will be able to view platform votes , convention calendars , and general information about the city of Los Angeles .
These kiosks will be powered by Voter.com .
Stay-at-home Democrats can plug into the convention from their own computers or Web-enabled devices .
DNCC 's McAuliffe says that the convention will feature what she calls " E-mersion Coverage , " a merger of broadcast and Internet technology .
The convention will be streamed in its entirety over the Internet , a feature that did n't quite work at the Republican Convention when Apple Computer and Xybernaut 's streaming video suffered some glitches and the Web video feed was delayed .
Visitors to the convention website will be able to virtually navigate through 360-degree panoramic views of the convention stadium , and view online-only video clips and webcasts featuring behind-the-scenes chats , greenroom gatherings , after-hours parties , and community events .
And while the Republicans had their Internet Alley , the DNCC will have " Internet Avenue , " a special area located in the convention 's media center which will be home to 100-plus companies showcasing technology services .




Sell Music Offline to Sell Online

For independent musicians , the Internet only works for the bands that market themselves well offline .
Of course , that poses a problem for bands that are new to the digital age .
To that end , Tim Sweeney and John Dawes have written a book called The Complete Guide to Internet Promotions for Musicians , Artists and Songwriters .
Divided into five sections , the book outlines how to put together a marketing strategy , how to promote a website and the dos and don'ts of creating a website .
But Dawes said all of the online marketing is irrelevant unless bands do what they do best -- play music in clubs .
" I encourage my artists to concentrate on performing as much as possible and then creating a website to feed the demand from that , " said Dawes . "
What does n't work is hosting songs on large portals at first .
Most of the users from those services are looking for established artists .
If you are unknown , you are unfound . "
But independent bands that are successful have a shot at real success on their own if they market themselves well .
With the average major label band making about 54 cents per CD sold , according to Dawes , the potential for mid-level selling artists just is n't there .
Independent artists however , have the opportunity to sell their own CDs for a much higher profit while charging less than retail outlet prices .
That can allow musicians to shed their part-time day jobs and concentrate entirely on their career .
While it might seem more economical for the bands to do the online promotions in-house , Dawes said is usually best to look to partner with other companies that can focus on marketing that is specific to the Internet , such as Web page development and back-end retail .
What bands should do , said Dawes , is focus on making the website an extension of the live performance so that fans will continually return to the site to find out the latest news .
By creating that fan-friendly environment providing interactivity , daily updates , and information that can n't be accessed at other places , bands will have an easier time creating traffic .
He also said that giving away music might be fine for some bands , but not if you hope to make a living .
" I suggest that artists put a track that could end up on the radio , something that has friendly airplay , " Dawes said . "
But I never , ever recommend putting up all of their tracks on the website .
You want to have enough to tantalize people to know that if they if buy the CD , they get more . "




Pentagon Still a Hacker 's Magnet

BETHESDA , Md. -- Defense Department pleas to computer hackers to quit their mischief-making appear to be falling largely on deaf ears , which makes spotting potential national security threats more difficult , a top Pentagon expert said Tuesday .
Despite recent appeals , " we 're not seeing any diminishing " of the pace of attacks on Defense Department systems , said Richard Schaeffer , who heads the cyber-security office in the Pentagon arm responsible for command , control , communications , and intelligence .
Last year , a total of 22,144 " attacks " were detected on Defense Department networks , up from 5,844 in 1998 , Air Force Maj. Gen. John Campbell , then vice director of the Defense Information Systems Agency , told Congress in March .
Through Aug. 4 of this year , a total of 13,998 such " events " have been reported , according to Betsy Flood , a spokeswoman for Arlington , Virginia-based Defense Information Systems Agency , which provides worldwide communication , network , and software support to the Defense Department .
Flood , updating the statistics in reply to a query from Reuters , defined " events " as probes , scans , virus incidents , and intrusions .
Schaeffer , speaking at a Bethesda , Maryland , " Web Defense " conference on business solutions to cyber-crime , said the government would like to take hackers " out of the equation as much as we can " to make it easier to track cyber threats that are may be tied to foreign foes .
Asked whether he expected recreational hackers to comply with the Pentagon request , he replied : " Probably not , " even though the Pentagon was crying " uncle " and telling hackers " you got our attention . "
Last month , the Pentagon , along with representatives of the armed services and federal law enforcement authorities , called on cyber vandals to turn their talents to defense .
Assistant Secretary of Defense Art Money urged hackers in attendance at the DEF CON 8.0 convention in Las Vegas to join the government or private industry and get on the " defense side . "
Once an underground event , the eight-year-old DEF CON computer hackers ' convention drew 5,000 people .
Schaeffer attributed the jump in reported attacks on Defense Department systems between 1998 and 1999 , in part , to improved intrusion-detection procedures and technology , along with stepped-up awareness and reporting .
But the " sophistication " of attacks also increased , he said .
The often-present " noise floor " from computer hackers " makes it a whole lot easier for to slip in. "
a serious threat
Schaeffer said only unclassified networks have been pierced , and the Pentagon is highly confident that its classified systems have never been penetrated by hackers because of very strong access controls .
Richard Thieme , a Milwaukee-based consultant on human dimensions of technology , chaired the panel at DEF CON at which the Pentagon made its appeal .
Thieme said that all but 1,000 of last year 's reported attacks were attributed to recreational hackers .
Schaeffer , in an interview with Reuters , said it was " highly probable " that at least some of the 22,000 attacks last year were undertaken by foreigners probing U.S. security gaps .
But he said he had never seen documentation of any such effort by China , the nation often cited by U.S. national security experts as probably developing offensive cyber weapons .




E-Privacy 's Foggy Bottom

Disturbing behind-the-scenes activity at Toysrus.com came to light last week : The company was whisking shoppers ' personal information down an unmarked Internet side road to a little-known data-processing firm .
As customers browsed and shopped at the toy retailer , third-party data-analysis firm Coremetrics was sucking name , address , and shopping cart information into its database .
The discovery spurred a controversy over the role of this unseen third party -- as well as lawsuits targeting Toysrus.com and Coremetrics .
The suits focused on the seemingly inflammatory fact that the hand-off was not mentioned in Toysrus.com 's privacy disclosures even though the information handed over was explicitly personal .
But the alleged privacy transgression is n't as clear as it might seem .
Coremetrics was a contractor to Toysrus.com , which was turning over its customer activity data for analysis to Coremetrics .
That outsourcing relationship between the two companies shed light on an area of relative obscurity in the debate over the acceptable ebb and flow of private information online .
Attorneys in one proposed class action lawsuit against Toys ' R ' Us and Coremetrics called the matter bigger than the DoubleClick controversy . "
It 's far worse than DoubleClick , " said Bill Doyle , attorney with Milberg Weiss .
The firm has handled many privacy and consumer fraud cases .
" It may not be as widespread as a DoubleClick or third-party advertisers , but it takes it to a new level , " he added .
Ad network DoubleClick , a ubiquitous third party on sites across the Web , came under fire last July for plans to acquire an offline-marketing firm that owned a huge database of personally identifiable consumer data .
If combined with anonymous cookies DoubleClick placed on millions of computers , the company might have had an unprecedented ability to track users online .
The controversy brought the role of third-party companies that interact with consumer information at websites into sharp focus .
The Federal Trade Commission and a consortium of ad networks recently came to agreement over self-regulatory privacy standards for third-party ad networks .
But is Coremetrics also a third party in addition to being Toys ' R ' Us ' outsourcing partner , and therefore subject to the same privacy rules ?
Absolutely , as critics like Doyle see it . "
We 're not talking search terms or just an ID number , or stuff that may or may not get linked up later , we 're talking everything , " he said . "
about
Your name , your address , your phone number , the ship-to names and addresses .
That 's a lot of information . "
But Coremetrics counters that its relationship with websites like Toysrus.com is being confused .
The nature of its third-party relationship to client websites is different than that of an ad network firm .
In addition to being much smaller in scope -- Coremetrics provides data analysis services to approximately 40 customer websites -- the company says it does not collect and use customer data for its own business ends .
Instead , it processes the data for the websites to use themselves .
Coremetrics says it is contractually prohibited in its client deals from profiling individuals across multiple client sites .
" based on the assumption that we collect data across multiple sites with the intention of re-selling it to third parties , and that 's just absolutely false , " said Brett Hurt , Coremetrics ' CEO and co-founder . "
The privacy concerns are
Their data is going into our database , but it is their property . "




Work ?
Who Needs It ?

Silicon Valley companies are becoming so desperate to snare the best employees from an ever-decreasing pool of qualified workers that tactics to entice applications are going from the sublime to the ridiculous .
In the past , companies have offered stock options , sports cars , and other employee benefits , but these handouts only materialized once the contract was signed and the lucky individual was securely on board .
Now AirPrime , a wireless data transmission company in Santa Clara , California , is upping the ante even further .
It 's offering free tickets for this weekend 's area Sting concert to qualified engineering applicants who send in a suitable resume .
" Companies are doing a lot of things that have n't been done in the past , " said Sandy Taylor , director of human resources at the pre-IPO AirPrime . "
I 've seen job ads on the sides of trucks parked in shopping center parking lots , or even directly outside competing companies . "
Until now , AirPrime has relied on headhunters and word of mouth to spread the news of current vacancies , said spokeswoman Liz Crawford .
Now , " engineers in Silicon Valley are a hot commodity , " she said . "
We 're a fun company , and we 're looking for unique ways to stand out . "
In June , the unemployment rate in tech-saturated Santa Clara County where AirPrime is located was a mere 2.2 percent -- less than half the 5.2 percent figure for California as a whole , and well below the national jobless rate of 4 percent .
In other counties in the area , the figure was as low as 1.8 percent .
" As technology moves forward , there are less and less qualified people , so employers are digging from a smaller pool of candidates , " said Jeremy Petrosino of Alpine Recruiting in San Francisco .
AirPrime 's generosity does n't stop with its prospective staff .
The company has also given pairs of Sting tickets to its 45 employees and is hosting a pre-concert party , " so potential employees have a chance to get to know us ahead of time , " Crawford said .
Earlier this year another company , Interwoven , lured in applicants with the promise that if they were hired , they 'd receive a $1,200-per-month taxable car allowance towards the purchase or lease of a BMW Z3 .
The company received over 1,000 resumes as a result , although of the 15 people who were hired , only three took the car .
The rest preferred Option No. 2 , a $700-per-month taxable bonus for the two-year duration of the incentive program .
" In this environment , we need to be creative , " said Gary Wimp , vice president of human resources at Interwoven . "
We need to attract good talent , and also be able to retain it , " he said , adding that long-term employee benefits now include fitness training from Brad Kearns , a world class triathlete who recently joined the staff .
ArsDigita , a software company with offices in San Francisco , Palo Alto , California , and other cities worldwide , believes that its current employees know who the best people are .
Workers referring 10 friends who are subsequently hired by the company get a Ferrari 355 TB .
Five friends are worth a Honda S2000 convertible , and one friend wins a bonus of $ 2,000 .
ArsDigita has already bought several Ferraris , ready to give out to their employees at a moment 's notice .




Mitel Makes ' Breakthrough ' Chip

OTTAWA -- Mitel Corp. said Thursday it has scored a key technical breakthrough and produced working prototypes of a chip that could cut costs and dramatically boost the performance of fiber-optic networks .
Shares in the phone system and semiconductor company surged by as much as 21 percent after the announcement , as the market continued its love affair with firms developing equipment for the red-hot fiber-optic sector .
Mitel said it is developing a chip that will help create more lanes to carry the voice , data and video traffic on fiber-optic networks .
That would make it cheaper and more efficient to transport information over the glass fibers used in those networks .
Known as dense wave division multiplexing , the chip technology boosts the number of wavelengths , or channels , that are used to carry traffic from a single beam of light .
Mitel said it is developing a device that may cram as many as 80 channels , or wavelengths , onto a beam of light using standard semiconductor materials .
Presently , most technology can handle 16 channels , with 40 channels available in products that use a technique called arrayed waveguide grating , Mitel said .
" We 're working on something that has a lot more horsepower to it , " said Mitel vice president of communications Jacques Guerette .
Mitel said it is using a technique called echelle grating to boost the number of channels rather than arrayed waveguide grating , which it said has capacity , precision and production constraints .
With echelle grating , a laser is fired at a piece of reflective glass shaped like a stair that is mounted on a chip .
Multiple reflections are then produced , with some wavelengths canceled and others reinforced .
The technique results in a greater number of reinforced wavelengths , and corresponding channels , than are produced by other grating techniques , Mitel said .
Arrayed waveguide grating splits light by creating parallel waveguides on glass substrate , with each waveguide longer than the last so that light entering the device comes out as different wavelengths on the other end .
" The existing fiber-optic industry is a competitor .
This is a technology that seemingly nobody else has -- at least nobody else is talking about it , " said Duncan Stewart , a fund manager and technology analyst at Tera Capital Corp. who holds Mitel shares . "
So if it works...that's very , very positive for Mitel . "
Companies developing fiber-optic equipment for internal and external sales include JDS Uniphase Corp. , Corning Inc. , SDL Inc. , Nortel Networks Corp. , and Lucent Technologies Inc.




Iconoclast Says Show , Do n't Tell

If Roger Schank had his way , schools would do away with multiple-choice tests and lectures .
" What we teach in schools is just the wrong stuff , " said Schank , director of the Institute for the Learning Sciences at Northwestern University and the founder of Cognitive Arts , a designer and developer of educational software and curriculum .
" Your education starts when you start doing things , " he said . "
Let 's create everything in a learn-by-doing environment because that 's what works . "
Schank believes that students learn better through experiential and emotional learning rather than through memorizing names and dates .
If used correctly , technology can enable such learning .
No one would board a plane with a pilot who had learned to fly by taking a multiple-choice test , he said .
And because learning to fly on a real plane would be too dangerous , new pilots use a flight simulator .
Schank believes the same approach can be applied in all areas of learning .
Simulating real-world environments is central to the online learning courses that Cognitive Arts is developing for Columbia University and Harvard Business School .
Online classes in C++ , Java , and business writing for non-native speakers of English will be released this fall through Columbia 's continuing education program .
In a programming course , students are put in a job situation where they must write a particular program .
The programs get progressively more difficult .
Schank will also develop more mainstream courses like introductory economics and psychology for Columbia , which will be released sometime in 2001 .
For a psychology class , a student may be asked to play the role of a psychologist and see a virtual patient with a behavioral problem .




Developers Warm Up to Linux Watch

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
When IBM announced that its research department had produced a Linux-powered watch on Monday , officials expected the news to be greeted with joy , if not downright reverence .
Instead , many in the media and open source community responded with jokes about " cluster clocks " and " Dick Tracy watches . "
" People do n't seem to be getting the importance of what was accomplished here , " said Alex Morrow , head of IBM 's Linux Watch development team .
Morrow said that the real issue is the overall scale of the prototype &ndash; - that it has the smallest motherboard -- almost the size of a postage stamp -- that presently is capable of running Linux .
" It was a technical challenge , " he continued . "
The ultimate goal here was to demonstrate that Linux could be reduced for a very small form factor . "
and therefore was proven to be scaleable
Morrow said that the constraints imposed by the physical size of the unit required special manufacturing technology , particularly when building the motherboard .
The small display and limited input mechanisms also presented significant challenges .
" Fitting the components involved the use of advanced hardware packaging technologies , " Morrow said . "
We used Surface Laminar Circuit technology for fabrication of the circuit boards .
SLC
Wire bonding was used to attach the CPU to the circuit board .
Surface mount packaging was used for most other components . "
From a software standpoint , Morrow said the developers had to address issues of limited memory .
And he notes that IBM researchers are still working on solutions for the limited power that will be available when the unit has a self-contained battery .
" Proving Linux is workable on this small scale is important in itself , " Morrow said . "
It was an interesting challenge to create a Linux environment on a self-contained device small enough to fit into a wristwatch . "
Although IBM 's Linux watch is a prototype that will not be marketed , Morrow said that it should be considered an open invitation for developers .
" We hope they will be inspired to imagine what it would take to add new features to the watch , even if kernel changes are required , " he said . "
The availability of source code and a well-understood application programming environment makes it relatively easy to add new operating system facilities .
This makes Linux an ideal platform for this type of research . "




' Super ' Macs to Reach 1 GHz

While processors in PCs are running at faster than 1 GHz these days , Apple 's Macs have been stuck at 500 MHz for nearly a year .
A small Swedish startup has plans to change that .
Xtrem , a privately funded company based in Stockholm , plans to release custom-built Macs running at 1.2 GHz by the end of the year .
" You always want a faster machine , " said Mats Wallberg , Xtrem 's CEO and chief engineer . "
This will be the fastest machine on the market . "
According to Wallberg , the XtremMac G4 will be made using off-the-shelf Macs from Apple , which will void the Apple warranties .
Xtrem will install a special over-clocking device on the computer 's PowerPC processor to crank up the clock rate .
A refrigeration unit that chills the CPU , its cache , the machine 's ROM chip , and parts of the motherboard will prevent the components from melting down .
KryoTech has sold similar PCs based on over-clocked chips from AMD , which are cooled to minus 40 degrees .
Wallberg declined to say which chips the XtremMac will be based on , or whether the cooling mechanism would be built by Xtrem or KryoTech .
" We do n't want to disclose too much information to our competition , " Wallberg said .
Wallberg said Xtrem will use motherboards from Apple because the company has eliminated its hardware licensing to third parties .
He said they will also increase the speed of the system bus -- a data pipeline and a crucial bottleneck -- from 100 MHz to 150 MHz .
Wallberg said that regardless of where the final components come from , the XtremMac will be up to three times faster than PCs with equivalent speed processors from Intel or AMD , thanks to what he calls the inherent advantages of the PowerPC processor .
The machine will also run at twice the speed of Apple 's current line of G4 Macs , executing more than two gigaflops -- or 2 billion floating-point operations -- per second .
And unlike Apple 's dual-processor G4s , which accelerate only those rare applications that have been specially written to run on multi-processor machines , the XtremMac will double the operating speed of all Mac software .
Wallberg said the company will market the XtremMac to power-hungry professional users who are always on the lookout for the fastest box available and are willing to pay a premium .
The XtremMac will be encased in a polished aluminum shell , which also helps to cool the computer , and made to order with options ranging from faster hard disks to souped-up graphics cards .
Herbert Wahl , Xtrem 's general manager , said it was too early to determine pricing .




Search for Alien Life
Cont .

SETI@home -- the massively popular public computing project that scans radio signals from space for signs of alien life -- will not end next May , as originally planned .
Instead , SETI@home directors said Tuesday that they have formed a partnership with The Planetary Society , a space interest group , and Project Voyager , a media start-up , that will provide enough funding to keep the project going for at least two years beyond May 2001 .
Backers cited SETI@home's huge community of users -- and the vast quantity of data left to crunch -- as key reasons for keeping the project alive .
" It taps into a lot of people 's passions and interests in a way that other things do n't , " said Joe Firmage , the former US Web CEO who recently co-founded Project Voyager , a media company that will focus on science and space-related news .
" There are millions of people out there who have a true love of science and discovery .
What SETI@home offered was the first science nonfiction that could be participated in simply through a screensaver , " he said .
SETI@home , headquartered in Berkeley , California , launched its project in May 1999 , after creating a system that uses spare CPU cycles on desktop PCs to hunt through radio signals beamed at earth for signs of alien intelligence .
Its screensaver software downloads radio data from SETI@home's central computers and then sifts through it , looking for a nonrandom pattern that stands out from the white noise of the universe 's background radio transmissions .
The project 's founders had originally figured they could make do with about 100,000 volunteers offering idle capacity on their computers , but wound up attracting far more interest .
Currently , SETI@home says it has 2.2 million users , concentrated in the United States and Europe , whose computers process data accumulated from the Arecibo radio telescope in Puerto Rico .
" In some sense , this is the largest science project in which the public has ever been involved , " said Louis Friedman , executive director of The Planetary Society .
Friedman said that although his organization has signed a contract to continue the project for only two additional years , he hopes to keep it going much longer .
The Planetary Society , Project Voyager , and SETI@home did not say how much money they were putting in to continue the computer-aided search for alien life , but said it would be substantially more than the current budget .
So far , SETI@home has operated on a budget of several hundred thousand dollars a year , supplemented by donations of equipment and technical assistance .
SETI@home project director David Anderson said that participants have not turned up anything that looks like an extraterrestrial signal , but noted that the project is still at an early stage .
" We are looking at a very narrow band of frequencies , " he said . "
Ideally , we would want to cover 1,000 times the range of frequencies . "
The project 's new backers say they plan to upgrade SETI@home in the near future by adding telescope data received from the Southern Hemisphere and increasing the speed at which SETI@home participants can send , receive , and process data .
The Planetary Society and Project Voyager also see the partnership with the alien search project as a way to possibly drum up traffic to their own sites .
Both plan to add links to content on their own sites from the SETI@home website .
SETI@home's Anderson , however , emphasized that the project 's screensavers would not contain advertising and that volunteers would not be subject to direct marketing from outside parties .
None of the project 's participants was comfortable offering any prediction of how long it might take for SETI , and its millions of users , to isolate a signal from a civilization far off in the cosmos .
" Those of us who track SETI believe that there 's a high likelihood of eventually unveiling a signal , " Firmage said .
However , he did n't specify how long " eventually " might take , noting only that , " It might just go on for longer than any of us live . "




The Web : It 's a Women 's Thing

PALO ALTO , California -- In an indication of how much the Internet has evolved from its roots as a male-dominated research medium , a new study shows that women on the Web now outnumber men , and their ranks are growing far faster .
The study , released on Wednesday by Media Metrix and Jupiter Communications , shows strong increases of women using the Internet in the United States in all age groups , except for those between 18 and 24 .
The usage of this age group actually declined from last year .
" Women in the college age group appear to have more offline interests , and more offline business to take care of , " suggests Anne Rickert , a Media Metrix analyst and co-author of the study .
" Everyone has a life offline , but some age groups find their offline lives are better served by online resources .
For the 18 to 24 age group , aside from academics and some shopping , the Web perhaps does not directly relate to their lives . "
Overall , the study found that during the first quarter of 2000 , women and girls made up 50.4 percent of the total U.S. Web audience -- the first time in the history of the Internet that they have outnumbered men .
And going forward , they appear poised to pick up more market shares .
While the total number of Web users grew by 22.4 percent during the past year , the number of female users grew by 34.9 percent .
Particularly strong growth was found among teenage girls .
The study found the number of female Web users between 12 and 17 shot up 125 percent over the past year , a jump that researchers credit to the success of teen-focused sites such as Gurl.com and Kibu.com , which cater to the adolescent yearning for a sense of belonging .
" The Internet is really tailor-made for this , " said Rickert . "
To me , the teen statistics were a real highlight of the study . "
If teens go online for social reasons , as women get older they appear to make more practical use of their time online , often logging on for information about health , childcare , vacations , and financial planning .
The study also found that many consumer product sites , which provide information on a range of items from indigestion medicine to dog food , have disproportionate numbers of female users .
Many women are making the buying decisions for their households , the study suggests .
Across all adult age groups , the list of top women 's websites looks a lot like the choices of the entire population .
America Online 's network of Web properties is the most popular destination among women over 18 , followed by the Microsoft Corp and Yahoo Inc sites .
Although several of the women 's community sites like ClubMom.com , Women.com , and Oxygen.com , reach large numbers of women , the general-interest , gender-neutral Internet portals remain far more popular .
The study 's final surprise is that several women 's community sites like Women.com and iVillage have male users that comprise upwards of 30 percent of their total audience .
" We do have a lot of good generic content , " said Annie Ellicott , vice president of marketing for Women.com .
She suggested men might use women 's sites for games , horoscopes , and " other information that they feel uncomfortable talking about . "
The findings were based on a survey of 55,000 people in the United States .




Strange Reality Streams on Web

First came Road Rules , then Survivor , and then Big Brother .
Is there no end to reality television ?
Now an entrepreneur from Calgary , Alberta , is taking the concept to the Web with the launch Wednesday of an interactive , reality-based webcast channel .
Intertooob.com will go live at 4:50 p.m. MDT with a 24-hours-a-day lineup of more than 50 shows .
They include talk shows , comedies , and newscasts .
The channel 's first show will be Extreme Beings , which features people with outlandish hobbies such as fire juggling .
Preceding the show will be a 10-minute introduction to the channel from company president Christopher Dores , who will explain the Intertooob.com concept .
The shows will be interactive and viewers will periodically receive questionnaires inviting them to direct the action -- changing endings and story lines . "
I want the audience to tell me what kind of shows they 'd like me to build for them , because it 's their channel , " Dores said .
The actors , videographers , digital editors , and screenwriters working on the shows , including Clone Wars and Fred 's Drunken Poets , are volunteering their time .
A staff of 12 , who currently earn about CN$1,000 a month , runs the station .
The show emanates from a studio above a popular watering hole for Calgary 's creative types , The Ship and Anchor , with many of the actors and crew having been recruited from the bar .
Funding for the venture comes from an anonymous Vancouver investor .
Intertooob.com has received sponsorship from Microsoft Canada , which is providing the broadcast software ; and from Calgary 's MaxLink Communications , which is donating wireless broadband access .
" We have funding , but we do n't have cash to burn , " said Dores , who would not reveal how much capital has been raised , or how much the channel costs to produce . "
So I 'm always on a shoestring budget .
The amount we get done with what we have is unbelievable . "
Viewers will tune in using Microsoft 's Media Player and should have either a cable modem or an ISDN line to get a proper feed .
Streaming over a 56K modem , Dores said , will be choppy .
Dores hopes digital commercials -- he calls them webmericals -- will pay for the programming . "
The pricing for these is extremely competitive , even as compared to small market TV advertising , " Dores said .
Like everything else associated with the fledgling webcaster , the marketing budget is tight .
On Monday , Intertooob.com staff plastered Calgary with 12,500 posters showing the company logo , a circle with a line underneath it .
That 's the logo for the first test pattern ever used on television .
The poster campaign may have been a bit too successful .
Shortly after the notices went up , Calgary authorities contacted Intertooob.com and ordered them to remove some .
Dores hopes the streaming webcast will attract some 7,000 viewers in its first couple of days . "
Everybody will want to watch this , " he said . "
It will be hilarious while you 're waiting for your e-mail from Aunt Betsy to download . "
Jordan Worth , a technology analyst with International Data Corporation Canada , is n't as certain about the concept . "
It 's always nice to be in the market early , " he said . "
On the other hand , I 'm not convinced it 's the greatest market to be in for a number of reasons . "
Worth said streaming technology still lacks quality and pointed out that the penetration rate of broadband Internet access is much higher in Canada than in the U.S. , where it encompasses only about 15 percent of the overall market .
The cost of producing webmercials might not be extreme , Worth said , but getting people to watch them could be challenging . "
People will n't necessarily want to use the bandwidth to watch that , " he said .
Still , on the eve of the launch , Dores remained optimistic .
" I understand where I 'm about to go is going to be an amazing journey .
If myself and the people around me are right and do our job , we can effectively change the way people use the Internet for entertainment . "




Napster Cloner Seeks Job

He may have been smart enough to graduate high school two years early , but Jeff Freeman was a little nave about how his self-promotional file-sharing project would be used .
Swapoo , modeled after Napster , has a central server that users can connect to and share video and game files .
Freeman intended the service to be used for freeware file sharing .
Instead , it has turned into a pirate 's tool for gamers , and the industry is paying attention to see if legal action is warranted .
In September 17-year-old Freeman will begin his second year at New Jersey 's Camden County College , where he is majoring in computer science .
He said he wrote Swapoo to highlight his programming abilities , and insists it was meant only for trading freeware .
To make himself as accessible as possible , Freeman posted his resume , phone number , and AOL Instant Messenger name on the Swapoo website .
But with all the attention Swapoo is getting , Freeman 's abilities will be further tested as he scrambles to build in anti-piracy measures .
On Tuesday , he posted an updated beta versions of the client and server software .
" I did n't think the program would get big enough for it to be an issue , " he said . "
When I produced the product , I did so I would have something for an interview on jobs . "
it
He plans to create a database of copyrighted materials , and have the Swapoo program scan all the compressed files on a user 's hard disk for copyrighted material .
Anything that matches up against the database will not be made available for trade .
Freeman now wants to turn Swapoo into a business .
He said he would like to add features for users to pay companies if they want buy copyrighted materials .
Beyond that , he would not give out any details on his business plans .
A lot of the file trading via Swapoo is taken from video game cartridges and CDs , such as Nintendo 's N64 and Sega 's DreamCast .
Game companies and their allies are watching to see if piracy becomes a major problem . "
We watch the whole Internet for these things , " said Charles Bellfield , director of marketing communications at Sega of America , in San Francisco . "
If he stops all copyrighted content from being traded through that site , great . "
Sega 's rival , Nintendo of America , said it is investigating Swapoo , but would not comment further .
The Interactive Digital Software Association , which handles anti-piracy cases for video game companies , is also watching the site , but only offered a prepared statement :
IDSA
" The IDSA is concerned about any technology that facilitates the piracy of copyrighted works . "




File Trading Takes AIM at AOL

A new Napster-like file-sharing program that allows users to trade files with " buddy " groups over America Online 's instant-messaging service was unveiled Tuesday .
Developed by independent programmers and dubbed Aimster , the application appears to enable trading to take place in a more secured environment than either the centralized servers of Napster , where user names can be tracked using software like Media Enforcer , or decentralized networks like Gnutella where end users do n't know the parties who are offering up files for sharing .
Although America Online 's AIM service allows users to send individual files to one another , Aimster adds search and retrieval functions .
The program is designed only for people using AOL instant messaging tools , not for use between AIM users and those using other companies ' software .
" There is huge market potential for tools that allow people and businesses to easily set up private , peer-to-peer networks , " said Jeff Nixon , managing partner for venture capital firm Interactive Capital Partners and who is familiar with Aimster .
" It 's the next natural evolution in personal communications after email and instant messaging , and it helps further unlock the most powerful part of the network -- the knowledge of each person that makes up the network , " Nixon said in a statement .
In 1999 , America Online posted the technical details that enable third parties to communicate with its users , but has routinely blocked companies that have developed compatible services .
The application works with the Windows 95/98 / NT platform .




NZ Cops Stalk Mob -- Virtually

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- They 're not just the thin , blue line against organized crime : In a small corner of New Zealand , the police are also the thin , blue URL .
In a suburb of New Zealand 's capital city of Wellington , the Mongrel Mob rules the criminal roost .
But tougher laws and a campaign of information about the gang are helping cut the serious crime they commit .
A website , the police in the Wellington suburb of Porirua decided , would be one way to undermine one of the Mongrel Mob gang 's key ways of maintaining criminal supremacy : intimidation .
The website recounts Mongrel Mob history , tells how gang membership -- acquiring the coveted " patch " -- is gained and gives details of the crimes the gang and hangers-on commit .
The website acknowledges the lure of the mainly Mori gang for the suburb 's disaffected and unemployed young , but says " regardless of the unfortunate circumstances that turn young Mori to the Mob , that is no excuse to victimize innocent people in the wider community . "
Potential police informants are urged to have backbone : " The power of the gang to intimidate people into silence will last only as long as we let it , " the website declares .
The gang is unusual in New Zealand : It does not have to compete on its turf with any other gang .
That gives them an impression of omnipotence , but in fact their numbers are relatively few .
The website , says Constable Mark Duncan , " was just to let people know that ... there are only 100 or so , and let 's not give them more attention than they deserve . "
gang members
The Mongrel Mob 's crimes have run the gamut from murders to armed robberies to extortion to rape .
But serious crime has slowed .
A new law has made a crime of witness intimidation .
That , coupled with a police resolve to prosecute with or without witnesses , has helped subdue the gang . "
We have n't seen serious offending for 9-12 months , " Duncan says .
It 's also more difficult for the gang to intimidate the public around the suburb : A law making it an offense to belong to a criminal gang means Mongrel Mob " patches " -- worn by full-fledged members of the gang -- are no longer worn with ease around Porirua streets .
Constable Duncan says the gang has n't completely eschewed crime : " They are by far the biggest dealers in cannabis in the Porirua area , " he said .
And while serious offenses may be down , crime still helps finance the gang .
According to figures on the website , about a quarter of all the crime in Porirua can traced to the gang or their associates .
Duncan and his colleagues set up the Porirua website on their own , well before any official guidelines had been set .
The lack of official imprimatur means the Porirua website has no official domain name and the police officers do all the website work themselves , sometimes having to leave the site without an update for weeks .
But the Porirua police officers could see websites were going to be used more and more by New Zealand police . "
We wanted to be in at the beginning , " Duncan says .
At national headquarters , meanwhile , the powers-that-be are still deliberating .
A national strategy for use of websites " will be developed over the next few months , " according to Susan Milner , who heads up public affairs for New Zealand 's police .
That strategy could encompass everything from paying fines online to displaying crime data .
The Porirua website would probably have to align with a national standard .
Duncan admits his team 's website has n't produced any gang-related tip-offs .
Most email to date has been about local traffic problems .
But the constable is pleased word has got around that the page exists .
For one of the less-affluent suburbs of Wellington , the website is " a bit avant-garde , " he says .
The website , Duncan says , has been " a very , very useful exercise , " despite the lack of gang information . "
You were n't going to break organized crime in one night , " he said .




Getting a Line on Nanochips

The technology may be small , but the advance is big : Scientists at the National Research Council of Canada have come up with a way to grow organic wires for nanoscale devices .
NRC
By prompting organic molecules to line up spontaneously along natural pathways on a silicon crystal , the scientists have taken what they are calling a key step in microchip development .
NRC researchers have fabricated tiny devices that sense and respond to information in their environment .
" We are approaching the limits of standard microchip technology , " said Bob Wolkow of NRC 's Steacie Institute of Molecular Sciences in a statement . "
SIMS
We 're are talking about devices on a scale about 1,000 times smaller than a single bacterium . "
The NRC scientists ' paper , titled Self-directed Growth of Molecular Nano-Structures on Silicon , was published in the July issue of Nature .
Using atoms and molecules , the SIMS team created what is essentially a self-assembling nanoscale wiring system by adding organic matter to silicon devices .
Their calculations show electronic coupling between adjacent molecules , which suggests that some molecular lines could be capable of transmitting signals along a pathway .
The organic wires could offer an alternative to current lithography methods for creating transistors .
Much of the research in this area is predicated on Moore 's Law , which postulates that every 18 months the speed of processors doubles while their size drops by half .
This has led to problems with more conventional lithography methods such as light , which fails to work below a certain size , according to Peter Will , co-director of the Lab for Molecular Robotics at the University of Southern California .
" The obvious thing to do is the end run , " Will said , " and the end run would be some other way of doing connections .
If you could grow the wiring , clearly you 'd get a wire few molecules thick , so you get enormous density and you break the current barrier to Moore 's Law . "
Dan Wayner , an organic chemist and one of the scientists who worked on the project , said they have demonstrated the ability to grow molecules in a line , but the next step is to figure out how to direct them to turn corners .
" If we can learn how to control whether that 's left or right , then you have the basis of a brand-new molecular form of lithography , where you can draw any arbitrary pattern on a surface by understanding the chemistry , " Wayner said .
To create its organic wire , the SIMS team began with a nonreactive silicon surface coated with hydrogen atoms .
Using a scanning tunneling microscope , they plucked off one hydrogen atom , leaving a single atom-sized reaction spot .
Once that dangling bond had been created , they exposed the entire crystal to a gas of styrene molecules , making the bond unstable and causing a chain reaction of grabbing adjacent molecules in a line .
The team 's research showed that exposure to the proper molecule would cause multiple lines to grow simultaneously .
Organic molecules also have the capacity to sense changes in their environment and react to them , giving scientists the opportunity to explore the possibility of making custom devices to perform very specific functions .
Along with surface scientist Bob Wolkow and condensed matter physicist Gregory Lopinski , Wayner began work on growing the organic wires three years ago . "
It 's when you start to mix disciplines in this way , that you really start to push the boundaries , " he said .
Wayner said the idea is still far from having a commercial application and suggested that it would be at least five years before they would be able to make functional components for processing or storing information .
" We expect this is the first hint of how we can go about building in a very controlled way nanostructures on surfaces , and by understanding their chemistry to be able to control and predict their function , " Waymer said . "
We think it 's a serious step forward . "




Dreamcast Seaman : Talk to Papa

I 've been talking to my Dreamcast lately .
Even stranger , it 's been talking back .
My wife thinks I 've lost it , but actually I 'm playing Seaman , a new videogame from Sega .
Seaman is the first interactive title released in North America to utilize microphone technology as its primary player interface .
More of a curiosity than a game , Seaman challenges Dreamcast owners to raise and study a fictitious character who is half man , half fish .
Seaman resides in a virtual aquarium and responds to spoken words , as well as controller-delivered tickles and flicks .
With over 12,000 lines of scripted dialogue , the wisecracking Seaman has the ability to recall past conversations and can vary his responses based on factors such as the age and gender of the player .
Created by noted Japanese designer Yoot Saito , Seaman is somewhat reminiscent of the virtual Tamagotchi pets so popular with children in recent years .
In order to successfully raise their Seaman , Dreamcast users must interact with the fishy character for at least 10 minutes each day over the course of a month .
Benevolent owners will ensure that their charge is properly fed , kept warm , and stimulated with tickling and good conversation .
Negligent Seaman keepers will find that their creature has grown sullen and unresponsive .
The $ 49.99 package includes the Seaman game disk as well as a small microphone that attaches to the Dreamcast controller .
Leonard Nimoy , of Star Trek fame , serves as narrator .
While Seaman is the first microphone-centric game , it certainly will n't be the last .
Nintendo demonstrated Hey You , Pikachu to eager crowds at this year 's Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles .
Scheduled for November release , Hey You , Pikachu lets Nintendo 64 gamers interact with the ubiquitous yellow Pokemon via bundled microphone .
If you 're beginning to smell a trend here , step to the head of the class .
As low-cost voice-recognition technology continues to improve , there will be numerous potential uses for electronic games .
These have not gone unnoticed by game designers and industry analysts alike .
" Seaman or Hey You , Pikachu are really only early indications of where this technology could go , " said Joe Fielder , site director of ZDNet 's popular GameSpot website .
" Think of how the advanced AI seen in Mindscape 's virtual pet sim Creatures could be applied to an actual game , and you can see a parallel to where voice recognition could possibly be headed , " Fielder said .
" The idea of literally being able to hold conversations with characters in a role-playing game like Final Fantasy is pretty appealing .
To me , talking to a character is n't quite a game , but it could be a great part of one . "
And therein lies the rub .
While some users will be fascinated with Seaman 's snide repartee , there 's not a lot happening much of the time .
Its voice technology is amusing , but Seaman is hardly the kind of game you 'd invite friends over to enjoy with pizza and beer .
Still , it 's fun in an offbeat sort of way , and represents an important historical milestone in gaming .




AOL Axes MP3 Searches

As the battle over intellectual property rights on the Web heats up , America Online has removed the search engine on its Winamp music player that allows users to locate music files in the MP3 format .
" The goal was to add a search function to the Winamp site .
Now that it 's up , we see we do n't have an efficient process for distinguishing between legal and illegal MP3s .
Until we figure out how to address this , we 're going to take the search function down , " said Jim Whitney , a spokesman at AOL , on Thursday .
The search engine function for Winamp , an audio player for downloading and listening to digital music , was implemented a month ago .
The decision to take it down came as the recording industry cracked down on Internet services that made it easier to find pirated music on the Web .
A person close to the matter , said America Online , whose merger with entertainment giant Time Warner is expected to close in the fall , took a look at the search engine as the issue of rights versus free distribution heated up and the possibility of illegal MP3 files turning up in the search gained attention .
AOL
TWX
At the moment AOL does not expect to put any similar search engine back up .
The battle between the Recording Industry Association of America and Internet companies that facilitate the distribution and sharing of music hit a boiling point with the industry 's suit against Napster , a free service that allows Internet users to download digital music files from other people 's computers .
The court battle between the RIAA and Napster is seen as a landmark case that could decide the fate of copyright protection in cyberspace and eventually books , movies , and television .
Time Warner 's Warner Music Group is part of the recording industry group that recently sued MP3 Board , a company that provides links to music-related Web sites and Internet files , to prevent it from linking users to pirated copies of their copyrighted music .
MP3 Board has countersued over the group 's role in shutting down the site .




Taking ' Toxic ' Out of Toxic Waste

OAKLAND , California -- A protest over the release of toxic chemicals at a medical-waste incinerator is aiming to do more than call attention to the environmental dangers .
Organizers say two alternate technologies are safer and already widely available worldwide to process medical waste without toxic air emissions , particularly dioxin .
The emission of even small amounts of dioxin has been linked with cancer and a host of serious health conditions , including autoimmune diseases .
" We have two types of technology available that are not only cleaner and better for the environment , but will also preserve the jobs of workers at the plant , " said Greenaction spokesman Bradley Angel .
The first , autoclaving , uses a steam-heat process to treat the waste .
The second , a microwaving system , shreds and then heats the waste .
Both processes significantly reduce the volume of the waste by up to 80 percent .
The Friday gathering in front of Integrated Environmental Systems ' two medical incinerators in Oakland is part of a larger conference , the Peoples Dioxin Action Summit , from Aug. 10-13 .
Labor , health , environmental , and scientific activists are gathering at UC Berkeley to discuss last month 's report by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency linking dioxin and cancer , and to strategize directions for the future of activism .
IES officials have become accustomed to the presence of protesters in front of their plants and to public criticism in general .
But despite more than 250 citations since 1990 for air quality violations , IES continues to downplay any role autoclaving and microwaving could play in medical-waste incineration .
" Autoclaving and microwaving are approved technologies , and in some cases they 're appropriate , " said Integrated Environmental Systems representative Robert Reed .
Reed said there is no guarantee the steam from autoclaving or the heat of microwaving destroys 100 percent of the infectious products . "
After all , we live in an age of HIV infection , " Reed said .
The argument that dioxin causes not only cancer but creates hormonal fluctuations , suppressed immune systems , and other health problems was given a significant boost last month by the EPA .
Their report linking dioxin with cancer joins existing EPA regulations identifying eight different emissions that medical-waste facilities handling 2 million tons a year have to reduce , including dioxin , mercury , nitrous oxide , sulfur dioxides , particulate matter , hydrochloric acid , and sulfuric acid .
There are more than 100 medical-waste disposal sites using either autoclaving or microwaving , according to Joe Wilson , CEO and president , Sterile Technology Industries , Inc. , one of an estimated 10 autoclaving manufacturers .
Costs vary , but growing criticism and government regulations are likely to make autoclaving and microwaving more attractive options for hospitals or off-site disposal contractors , industry officials predicted .
" Incinerators will just be too costly to keep up with those guidelines , " said Mark Taitz , vice president at microwaving manufacturer Sanitec International .
Microwaving , he said , kills pathogens by shredding the materials and then running them through a series of heating elements . "
It changes the nature of it without creating hazardous air emissions , " said Taitz .
Reed said IES ' emissions of dioxin are " less than 10 percent of what we 're allowed to emit , in one of the toughest air quality districts in the world .
Our emissions are barely detectable . "
Reed attributes the violations to minor events -- including excessive amounts of steam , a monitor that needs to be replaced , or a " paperwork issue , " he said .
A third alternative is truly low-tech technology -- recycling . "
Most of the waste is like household garbage .
It 's mostly packaging , " said Jackie Hunt-Christensen , spokeswoman for Healthcare Without Harm .
The plastic packaging is as responsible for toxic byproducts as the actual incineration is , according to Greenaction .
Hunt-Christensen said many hospitals are already slashing the costs and volume of medical waste simply by using traditional recycling methods : separating packaging from other materials .




E-Clothes Here , So Is Fear

Futuristic thinkers have long predicted the rise of wearable computers able to do everything from communicate body temperature to a room 's air conditioning system to diagnosing certain medical conditions .
Those predictions may become reality next month when the world 's first commercially available electronic clothing hits the European market .
Along with it come concerns about potential health dangers .
The first designs from the ICD+ line , a collaboration between European electronics giant Philips and American clothes manufacturer Levi 's , are four jackets equipped with a Philips-made GSM-standard mobile phone , MP3 player , and a remote-control device to power both .
" We 're looking at a very targeted audience -- the new nomads who are constantly on the move and need to be connected constantly to technology , " says ICD+ spokesperson Neil Stevens . "
This is aimed at the very technologically sophisticated and urban customer who wants functionality , convenience , and simplicity in technology . "
That functionality comes at a high price : from US$ 600 to US$ 900 , costly enough to render them an interesting oddity to all but a few moneyed geeks .
Accordingly , ICD+ is producing only 600 of the jackets and sprinkling the units in select retail stores in Italy , France , Great Britain , Sweden , Germany , and Greece .
But it was the potential bodily effects of tech-integrated clothing that has elicited the most controversy on geek discussion boards and mailing lists .
Some people are concerned about the potential for electric shocks , a hazard Stevens insists is baseless due to the jackets ' waterproof construction .
Yet a more nagging risk lingers .
In the wake of reports and studies that link mobile phone usage to cancer , concentration lapses , and long-term memory loss , many experts are concerned that devices worn in constant proximity to the body may prove even more dangerous .
" This is currently a very hot topic , particularly as more people use wireless devices and use them more often , " says Lawrence Pizzi , director of The Brain Tumor Society . "
So far , studies are not conclusive and no one can say for sure whether or not mobile phones and other devices pose a danger . "
The mobile-phone-cancer controversy was ignited in 1993 , when a Florida man alleged that cell phone use caused his wife 's brain tumor .
Since then , scientists have looked at the rates of brain tumors in humans and studied the effects of cell phone radiation in animals .
" Nothing 's been proven yet , but yes , there are concerns , " says Stephen Fickas , a professor in the Wearables Computer Group at the University of Oregon . "
Wireless technology uses radio frequencies to communicate with a satellite and that emits radiation that 's the center of concern . "
The most recent flap involves a lawsuit filed Aug. 3 by a neurologist with a malignant tumor behind his right ear .
The neurologist , Dr. Chris Newman of Baltimore , claims the mobile phone industry has failed to inform consumers that the high levels of radio frequency radiation produced by mobile phones may cause or contribute to cancer .
Newman bolsters his claim with a 1994 study on rats that showed breaks in DNA -- a possible indication of future cancer -- after the rats were exposed to radiation .
Results of that study have not been replicated , and human trials have so far shown that mobile phone users do not have significantly higher rates of brain cancer .
Nonetheless , studies like the 1994 rat trial , a 1999 study underwritten by the cellular phone industry , and a May 2000 study by Swedish researchers that linked cell phone usage to an increased risk of cancer , continue to worry physicians and consumers .




Intel Pushes Pedal to 2 GHz

SAN JOSE , California -- Intel CEO Craig Barrett is fired up about e-commerce , and has refocused his company on platforms instead of processors .
Fresh off his Montana ranch where he bought 4 bulldozers to fight the wildfires , Barrett barely mentioned the microprocessors in a Tuesday address to developers .
Barrett said his " 100 percent e-company " is focusing on providing hardware for distributing computing and " Napster-like " peer-to-peer applications to let the projected 2 billion connected PCs and wireless devices to share data .
Albert Yu , vice president of the Intel architecture group , unveiled the successor to its popular Pentium III processor -- the Pentium 4 , a wholly redesigned chip that could have PCs running at an astonishing 10 GHz within a few years .
At this year 's gathering , transplanted to San Jose to better accommodate the record crowd of about 5,000 , Intel also introduced speedy new chips for high-end servers and workstations , and is expected to announce a low-power processor for smart phones and handhelds devices .
INTC
The Pentium 4 , which will debut in the fall , runs at 1.4 GHz .
But Yu demonstrated an overclocked chip that topped 2 GHz .
If the Pentium 4 follows Moore 's Law , which dictates that chips double in processing power every 18 months , the Pentium 4 will hit 10 GHz in about 2004 , analysts predict .
" It will play essentially the same role as Al Gore , " said analyst Nathan Brookwood of Insight 64 , a market research firm based in Saratoga , California . "
And that 's to carry on the tradition of the last four years .
Intel hopes it will bring continued prosperity to the PC industry by boosting the Pentium 's performance . "
To get the extra juice , Intel has completely redesigned the chip 's architecture , introducing special sub-systems for turbo-boosting frequently executed commands as well as adding a host of new instructions for enhancing video , audio , and 3-D .
The new processor also includes a 400 MHz system bus , 3 times the speed previous chips .
Yu saved the best for last during his presentation , wowing the subdued audience with a 3-D rendered image of a pool , in which he generated life-like ripples by touching the screen .
The rendering , which was met with hearty applause , included lighting and shadow effects that factored the surrounding trees into the waves .
The Pentium 4 will have 42 million transistors , compared with 26 million in the Pentium III .
" It was really designed for the visual Internet going forward , " said Yu , adding that streaming media on the Internet , real-time video compression , better speech software , and the need for encryption are demanding more performance from microprocessors .
Yu said that even at modem connection speeds of 56 kilobits per second , users would notice a marked increase in performance .




It 'll Be an Open-Source World

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Open-source standards will completely reshape the software industry by 2004 , according to a recent report by Forrester Research .
IBM and Dell will eventually triumph , while Oracle and Microsoft will struggle to cope with a changing marketplace .
Forrester forecasts that within four years , all traditional software vendors will need to change their proprietary business models to open-source ones , or drastically lower the price of enterprise application licenses .
" Proprietary software vendors will suddenly see software development as an unfair fight : their mercenary band of captive developers against a battalion of Internet-armed revolutionaries , " Forrester analysts note dramatically in the report .
" Open Source Cracks the Code " also predicts that IBM will soon regain its position as the " Infrastructure Gorilla " since the company already offers open-source development and support across much of its product lines .
Dell will evolve into a profitable open-source player , with strong support and service offerings , the report said .
Oracle and Microsoft will be hardest hit .
The report predicts that Oracle will n't be able to compete with the widespread emergence of no-cost database and server software and will be forced to open its applications .
But the company will eventually recover by transforming itself into a service/support vendor .
Microsoft will n't be as lucky .
Forrester analyst Carl D. Howe predicts that Microsoft 's business model will clash so severely with the new open-source-fueled development and distribution models that the company 's market share will shrink for the first time in its history .
And eventually , the report forecasts , MS will become little more than a " legacy vendor , " offering support for its antiquated products .
Officials at the four companies detailed in the report could n't immediately be reached for comment .
But George Nobick , a network administrator and Linux developer , was gleeful .
" Hah !
Microsoft may own the desktop now , but we own the future , " he said .




Windows Shuttered at LinuxWorld

SAN JOSE , California -- Embed . Embed . Embed .
That 's the buzzword at the LinuxWorld Conference and Expo here , where startups and industry veterans alike are trying to prove that Linux can run on everything from a wristwatch to an industrial robot .
At the Compaq booth Wednesday , the spotlight was on handhelds .
Three of the company 's iPAQ handhelds graced the platform , looking just like your average Windows-based pocket computer .
" But these are totally stripped of CE , " a Compaq representative beamed , referring to the Microsoft operating system that has no fans at LinuxWorld .
" You buy one of these handhelds running Windows , then go to www.handhelds.org and download Linux for it , " the representative said conspiratorially .
But why would you want Linux on an iPAQ ?
The Compaq rep hesitated .
What sort of question is that ?
Nobody asks Why Linux ? at LinuxWorld because the answer is wafting in the air : You want Linux so you do n't have to deal with Microsoft .
Or , as a software engineer from Monta Vista Software explained it , one should want Linux " to defeat Microsoft . "
Monta Vista was just one of the many " embedded Linux " companies at LinuxWorld .
Such firms help companies get Linux on everyday appliances , from ATM machines to golf carts .
Monta Vista showed off an Internet radio running the Linux OS .
Developed by Kerbango , the device is billed as the world 's first stand-alone Internet radio , and Monta Vista supplied the Hard Hat Linux running on the system .
A Monta Vista representative said that if not for Linux , an Internet appliance like the Kerbango radio would need to run a proprietary operating system with much less flexibility than Linux .
" Basically all you would get is a ' black box ' with specs , " he said , and a developer would need to produce applications around the specs without knowing the code for the OS .
In a tiny booth in the center of the exhibition hall , a new company based in Berkeley , California called PocketLinux was mobbed by geeks trying to get a glimpse of the company 's cool PDAs .




Kids Out-Click Jaded Teens

In a survey that may prompt advertisers to pump more money into marketing to children , a Web tracking firm concluded that kids are more likely than any other age group to click on Internet banner ads .
The survey -- released Tuesday by Web measurement firm Nielen/NetRatings -- found that in June 2000 kids 11-years-old and younger clicked on 0.87 percent of banner ads that popped up on their computer screens .
That figure is nearly double the 0.45 percent average click rate for all U.S. Internet users and significantly higher than any other individual age group .
Researchers found that advertisers who used interactive elements , such as games or contests , were most likely to capture the notoriously short attention spans of kids .
However , they also cautioned that the advertising techniques that succeed today might not work so well in the future .
" Although the click rate is higher for kids , it continues to decline at a steep rate , meaning advertisers will have to know what 's working and what 's not when it comes to reaching this segment , " said Kate Maddox , director of Internet advertising strategies at NetRatings .
Maddox also pointed out that kids bombarded by banner ads appear to tire of them later in life .
According to survey calculations , teenagers are the age group least likely to click on Internet ads .
Nielsen/NetRatings found that the average click rate for kids ages 12-17 was a mere 0.19 percent in June .
Maddox said the results reflected what advertisers have known for a long time : Disaffected teenagers are a tough audience for marketers to reach .
Despite their low average click rate , however , researchers found that teens do respond more frequently to certain kinds of advertising pitches , in particular those offering free goods or practical information .
In June , the No. 1 ad clicked on by teens , which garnered a 20.35 percent click rate , was a pitch from Eastpak that featured a contest for a free backpack stuffed with prizes
For kids , the most-clicked-on ads included one by Trident Gum for its " Adventures of Supertooth " game , a campaign for Nintendo , and promotions for CartoonNetwork.com .
The survey results are based on data collected from a sample of 65,000 Internet users in the U.S.




MS Server Attack Tool Unleashed

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
.
Editor 's note : This story was updated at 11 a.m. , Aug. 17 , 2000
A newly released automated Web-based tool can scan Microsoft 's Internet Information Server for multiple reported IIS vulnerabilities , according to iDEFENSE Intelligence Services .
IIS
This Web tool can be used to scan unsuspecting systems to identify vulnerabilities prior to an attack .
Then , through the successful exploitation of the discovered vulnerabilities , an attacker could gain access to source code possibly containing user names and passwords , locations of MS Access MDB files , or other sensitive information .
Using the automated Web tool , Svet Namodro , a leading daily IT newspaper published in the Czech Republic , reported being able to penetrate dozens of systems and obtain information ranging from email addresses to usernames and passwords .
Blue World
Access to this tool is now publicly available on its website hosted in the Czech Republic , so that Web administrators can test their own sites .
Due to the now-public release of the tool , iDEFENSE Intelligence Services is predicting an increase of attacks against systems operating IIS .
Sammy Migues , iDEFENSE chief scientist , says that the Czech site serves as an example of how easy it is to automate attacks on websites .
The original posting about the bug was made to the NTBugtraq discussion list on August 14 by Svet Namodro Editor Daniel Docekal .
Docekal says that the bug was discovered during his newspaper 's coverage of one of the largest computer cracking incidents in the Czech republic .
" The Mr. Linx site was hacked , " Docekal said . "
The hacker discovered passwords for the SQL server and through SQL server changed the password for the administrator and then got a free ride through system . "
Migues feels that in the short term , there may be an upswing in attacks on IIS servers due to the public release of the testing tool .
" There are several other examples of freely downloadable tools that scan websites for dozens of software and configuration vulnerabilities , " Migues said . "
Having such a tool on a Web page like this , however , allows people who are too scared to run tools from their own IP address to ' test ' sites from this Web server . "
Docekal is appalled by the fact that , even after few days of the test being available , there are still thousands of sites with the security problems his Web tool was meant to expose .
" And it is something that makes me frightened , because as usual , hackers are always one step front of us , so they have much better tools than we who try to fight them . "
He feels that it is simply " irresponsibility or lack of knowledge " on the part of website administrators that makes so many sites vulnerable to " anyone with a Web browser " .
Docekal hopes the publicity will inspire organizations to patch their servers .
Service Pack 1 for Windows 2000 contains fixes for these vulnerabilities in IIS 4.0 and 5.0 along with patches for several unrelated vulnerabilities .




Love Bug Case Dead in Manila

The call for global laws to govern the Internet has been raised once again in the wake of the Philippine government 's decision to drop all charges against " Love Bug " suspect Onel de Guzman .
The " Love Bug " -- the crippling worm that was unleashed May 4 -- is considered the worst such attack in history , and is estimated to have cost businesses worldwide billions of dollars in damages .
College drop-out de Guzman , 24 , who had been suspected of writing and distributing the worm from his Manila flat , has admitted he may have " accidentally " unleashed the virus , which traversed the globe in the form of an email attachment titled " I Love You . "
But even if de Guzman admitted everything he 's suspected of , it would n't much matter .
The new computer hacking law signed in June by President Joseph Estrada can n't be used against him .
And in the end , authorities decided that the laws that governed the more run-of-the-mill crimes he was charged with , such as credit card fraud , do n't apply to hacking .
And the theft charge did n't stick due to insufficient evidence .
All this leaves some legal experts shaking their heads .
" I think the decision not to charge him really points to the weakness in the world regarding the prosecution of computer crimes , " said Peter Toren , a former prosecutor in the U.S. Department of Justice 's Computer Crimes and Intellectual Property section . "
As long as there are governments that do n't take these crimes seriously , it 's going to be very difficult for other countries to really protect their computers . "
Industry experts in at least one country are now calling for international laws to deal with this problem .
India 's National Association of Software and Service Companies responded to Monday 's news by calling for global regulations to deal with the future de Guzmans of the world .
" Every country which signs up for the Internet needs to adopt cyber laws , " NASSCOM President Dewang Mehta said .
Toren agrees , and says stricter laws will end up in the long run benefiting the countries that enact them .
" I think a lot of companies and investors are reluctant to invest in countries that do not protect intellectual property rights and enforce laws or enact laws relating to computer crime , " he said .
" The crimes that can be committed over the Internet are really unique .
International treaties could certainly be helpful with extradition , minimum standards , that sort of thing , " he said .




Studios Score DeCSS Victory

LOS ANGELES -- A DVD-descrambling program is akin to a virulent Internet epidemic that must be eradicated , a federal judge said Thursday as he agreed with Hollywood that DVDs must be protected from decryption and copying .
Comparing the DeCSS utility to a " common-source outbreak epidemic , " U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan said " there is little room for doubting that broad dissemination of DeCSS threatens ultimately to injure or destroy plaintiffs ' ability to distribute their copyrighted products on DVDs , and , for that matter , undermine their ability to sell their products to the home video market in other forms . "
The lawsuit , which was filed in federal court in New York , and a similar one pending in state court in California , are part of an aggressive campaign by Hollywood to protect its content from illicit distribution online .
The Napster file-trading service has come under attack , as have iCraveTV and Scour.net .
Kaplan 's 93-page ruling against hacker-zine 2600 Magazine , which eight movie studios sued after it posted DeCSS on its website , likely will have far-reaching effects in the computer industry .
It prevents 2600 from not only distributing copies of DeCSS , but also linking to Web pages or areas of a website where it resides .
That could affect other online news organizations , which have occasionally linked to DeCSS as part of their coverage of the lawsuit .
" I 'm very troubled by the implications of the analysis in this case , particularly with regard to linking , " said Stuart Biegel , a senior lecturer at the UCLA School of Law . "
The distinction set forth in this opinion between different types of linking is a nebulous one . "
The Motion Picture Association of America , which has backed the lawsuit , applauded the ruling .
" Today 's landmark decision nailed down an indispensable constitutional and congressional truth : It 's wrong to help others steal creative works , " MPAA president Jack Valenti said in a statement . "
The court 's ruling is a victory for consumers and for legitimate technology . "
The Electronic Frontier Foundation , which has paid for the legal defense of 2600 publisher Emmanuel Goldstein , said it would appeal the ruling .
Kaplan 's decision , if upheld on appeal , could endanger not just websites distributing DeCSS -- and there seem to be thousands of them -- but efforts by the Linux community to develop an open-source DVD player .
The LiViD project , for instance , is attempting to build a modular suite of software DVD players , and to do that , programmers incorporated the same code used in DeCSS .
Kaplan 's order said that anyone acting " in concert " with 2600 is prohibited from distributing or linking to any program that circumvents the DVD-protection algorithm called CSS .
" Now the MPAA has an avenue to go around bulling anyone offering the LiViD project files , simply by making an argument that they 're operating in conjunction with 2600 , and 2600 has been enjoined from posting any CSS code , not just the infamous DeCSS.exe , " wrote one irate poster on an open-source-related mailing list .




Linux Mounts MS Offense

Some big names in the computer industry are teaming up to help create a free , easy-to-use operating system to rival Microsoft 's Windows .
Sun Microsystems , IBM , and Compaq have joined with Red Hat , the Free Software Foundation , and VA Linux , among others , to form the Gnome Foundation , a coalition to develop and promote the Gnome desktop environment .
At the LinuxWorld Expo in San Jose , California , on Tuesday , the foundation announced that it will establish Gnome as a common desktop environment for GNU/Linux and other Unix operating systems .
The Gnome project also formed an advisory board for the foundation with members from Compaq , Hewlett-Packard , IBM , Red Hat , Sun Microsystems , Eazel , the Free Software Foundatio , TurboLinux and VA Linux .
The move is another step toward establishing GNU/Linux as a viable alternative to Windows and the Mac OS , and goes some way toward reuniting the numerous , incompatible flavors of Unix on the market .
While GNU/Linux is popular in the world of servers , its lack of a nice , friendly interface is one of the major reasons it has n't taken off with Joe Sixpack -- despite the fact that it 's free to download , install , copy , and redistribute .
The 3-year-old Gnome project had planned to change that by developing a framework and an all-important suite of software libraries developers need to create software applications , the life blood of any operating system .
But Miguel de Icaza , Gnome 's chief coordinator and the chief technology officer for Helixcode , said the ad hoc nature of the project , which is made up of about 400 volunteer programmers , scared off a lot of big companies .
" So far the Gnome project has been managed by me and my friends , " he said . "
But it 's really hard to keep track of everything .
The Gnome Foundation will provide a central point of contact for everybody .
...
The foundation gets everyone working together on one unified standard for one unified desktop . "
De Icaza said the foundation , which consists of more than a dozen free software developers and leading hardware vendors , will coordinate Gnome 's technical development and provide legal and financial support to the project .
The foundation also makes it easier for competing companies to work together to develop the Gnome technology , he said .
In the absence of a formal entity like the Gnome Foundation , antitrust regulators might view collaboration between IBM and Sun as illegal market fixing , de Icaza said .
" I think we 're going to come up with something mind-blowing that will offer a very good alternative to proprietary operating systems , " he added .
like Windows and the Mac OS




Britain Endorses Embryo Cloning

LONDON -- British scientists should be allowed to clone human embryos for use in a wider variety of medical research , the government 's chief medical officer , Liam Donaldson , said Wednesday .
In 1990 parliament approved embryo research , mainly into treating infertility and avoiding disability in children .
But on Wednesday Donaldson called for the scope of permissible research to be widened .
In a report titled " Stem Cell Research : Medical Progress with Responsibility , " Donaldson affirmed his support for an expansion of " therapeutic cloning " research .
Therapeutic cloning involves taking genetic material , creating an embryo out of it and then using the embryo 's cells to form new tissues that would be identical to the patient 's own tissues -- removing the risk of rejection of the tissue .
Donaldson said research using embryos " to increase understanding about human disease and disorders and their cell based treatments should be permitted " because of the " great potential to relieve suffering and treat disease . "
Prime Minister Tony Blair will leave it to members of parliament to decide in a free vote whether scientists should be allowed to clone human embryo cells for a broader spectrum of research , the Department of Health said .
" The Government response to the report accepts all the report 's recommendations and undertakes to introduce regulations to extend the permitted research purposes ... and also to affirm the existing ban on reproductive cloning .
The Government intends to make this a free vote , " it said in a statement .
Therapeutic cloning draws criticism because it relies on research on embryonic stem cells -- undifferentiated cells which develop into all the different tissues of the body -- and in effect creates human beings and then kills them .
" Therapeutic cloning means killing .
It is neo-cannibalism , " the pro-life charity Life said in a statement released on Wednesday before Donaldson made his comments .
Charities such as Life would like to see more work done to follow up on new research showing that adult stem cells , instead of embryonic ones , could be used to develop tissues and organs .
Donaldson called for research into alternative sources of stem cells and said experiments on embryos would only be permitted if the Human Fertilization and Embryology Authority was satisfied there were no other options .
The progress of stem cell research should also be monitored by an " appropriate body , " Donaldson 's 150-page report added .
He advocated maintaining restrictions on " reproductive cloning " which seeks to create genetically identical individuals in the same way that scientists created Dolly the sheep in 1997 by manipulating adult cells .
" So-called ' reproductive cloning ' should remain a criminal offense , " Donaldson said , adding that the mixing of adult human cells with live animal eggs was also banned .
Under the terms of the 1990 act , Britain has some of the world 's strictest regulations on cloning research and British scientists have been keen for the government to loosen them to enable them to compete with their counterparts overseas .




Gene-Altered Wheat Controversy

A loaf of bread could soon become controversial .
From university laboratories to U.S. government-run greenhouses , research is moving forward to bring the first genetically modified wheat to market as early as 2003 .
GMO
The goals are noble -- to make wheat production more efficient and robust for farmers and to make wheat better for bakers and more nutritious for consumers .
But success may also open a new front in the global debate over the safety of genetically modified foods as biotech wheat makes its way into staples like bread , crackers , and pasta .
" There is this fear of unleashing genes into the food supply and into the environment , " said Jim Peterson , a wheat breeder at Oregon State University , which recently signed a deal with Monsanto to develop a gene-altered wheat . "
Until we can have a gene that has true consumer benefits , we are going to have some trouble with acceptance . "
Wheat is the second most commonly grown food grain in the world -- corn is the first -- and is the top grain traded internationally , making it subject to intense global scrutiny .
That fact , combined with a swarm of protests in the United States , Europe , and Asia over fears that GMO crops might harm human health and the environment , have many in the wheat industry more than a little nervous .
GMO advocates say the technology is safe , but so far , the market is unconvinced .
" ' If you grow GMO wheat , we will not want to buy it .
' That 's what we 're hearing from our customers , " U.S. Wheat Associates spokeswoman Dawn Forsythe said . "
They 're saying ' we see where it is helpful for your farmers , but what does it do for us , and why should we buy it ?
' "
Forsythe said that the top importers of U.S. wheat , including Egypt and Japan , have already said they want nothing to do with GMO wheat .
Science faces fierce protests : Despite the concerns , Oregon State and three other U.S. universities have recently agreed with Monsanto , the leading player in advancing genetically modified grain varieties , to develop and bring to market a " roundup-ready " spring wheat as early as 2003 .
The deals with Oregon State , Washington State University , South Dakota State University , and the University of Minnesota would bring little direct benefit to consumers , who know spring wheat mainly as the chief ingredient in bagels and rolls .
But farmers could theoretically save on production costs with the herbicide-tolerant strain .
Monsanto is also in discussions with other universities for research into different wheat classes , such as hard red winter wheat , another bread staple .
Monsanto , which has been the subject of many anti-GMO protests , became a unit of U.S.-Swedish drug firm Pharmacia Corp in March .
PHA.N
Company officials declined to discuss the issue other than to confirm that the company was currently in the research phase of developing roundup-ready wheat .
The work in GMO wheat comes amid a global firestorm of controversy that is complicating efforts to promote modified corn , a quarter of the U.S. crop , and soybeans , which make up more than half of the soybeans that American farmers produce .
Protesters have vandalized and burned biotech university laboratories in the United States , started a riot at an international biotechnology industry meeting in Italy , and ambushed a U.S. cargo ship in Wales carrying genetically modified soybeans .
In addition to fears of damage to health and the environment , some GMO opponents also say companies pushing the technology want to control the food supply .
Wheat farmers worry : Similar opposition could be lying in wait for wheat , a crop that amounted to $ 3.7 billion in U.S. exports last year and is one of the top agricultural exports for the United States .
And all of the controversy has wheat farmers in a bind .
GMO wheat could help boost their bottom line , or it could leave them with bins full of unmarketable grain .
" Wheat farmers would like to embrace the technology , but they also are concerned about their export markets , which account for 50 percent of total U.S. wheat production , " said Darrell Hanavan , head of a biotech committee of the National Association of Wheat Growers and U.S. Wheat Associates .
" Farmers are asking ' Is it going to be accepted ?
' We do n't know the answer to that , " Hanavan said .
Many in the wheat industry are working on strategies for segregation so U.S. wheat customers will n't have to worry about GM0 wheat mixed in with non-GM0 wheat .
But no clear plan has been defined yet .
Meanwhile , a popular sentiment says the solution to market acceptance is likely to be found in products that directly benefit consumers , rather than farmers or large corporations .
As far as wheat goes , that day is a long way off , according to Ann Blechl , a geneticist with the Agricultural Research Service of the U.S. Agriculture Department .
Blechl is now working on GMO traits to give consumers wheat with improved protein for bread and pasta , eliminating the nutritional need for meat and bean proteins , as well as wheat with better baking characteristics .
" In the present political climate I do n't know how close we 'll ever get to bringing these things to market , " she said .
University of Minnesota wheat breeder Jim Anderson , one of those working on the new GMO spring wheat , is also less than optimistic . "
I do n't know that anybody wants to be first with this , and have to test the waters . "




Mac Offers PowerBook Upgrade

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
.
Editor 's note : This story was updated at 2 p.m. on Aug. 21 to reflect Apple public relations ' confirmation of the program
Mac users who bought a bad Apple can now trade it in for a fresh new one .
Apple is offering to owners of the beleaguered PowerBook 5300s and the 190s one of the company 's current PowerBook models -- a 400 MHz G3 , with a six gigabyte hard drive , 64 MBs of RAM , DVD and a 14.1-inch display -- for $ 1,800 , a $ 700 savings over the suggested retail price .
Although Apple 's website had no information on the program as of Monday morning , company PR representatives confirmed the offering on Monday afternoon .
Apple customer relations also confirmed the program 's existence , which will be available until Aug. 31 .
Owners of a 5300/190 can call Apple Customer Relations at 800-767-2775 for more details on the " PowerBook 5300 Limited Time Offer Upgrade . "
According to customer relations , callers will be asked for the serial number of the PowerBook and a credit card number , and will be sent a Federal Express shipping label for its return to Apple .
The replacement machine will be shipped on receipt of the 5300/190 unit .
The PowerBook 5300 , introduced in 1995 , was the first PowerBook with a PowerPC CPU but is better known as the " Flaming PowerBook . "
The Sony-made battery in the original release of the 5300 model occasionally overheated when plugged into AC power to recharge , whereupon , in rare cases , the battery would explode and burst into flames .
Apple speedily recalled these units , soon reintroducing machines sporting new batteries .
But these 5300s were also plagued with widely reported problems : the plastic casing was fragile , the case hinges cracked , there were motherboard and circuitry issues , and some of the AC power ports easily broke under normal use .
Apple responded by extending the warranty on 5300s .
The special seven-year repair extension program is now in its final phase .
" I guess they 're doing this to restock parts so they can continue to support the machines , " Apple owner Steven Vortek speculated .
Vortek is happy with his 5300 , although he says it has spent a significant time " at sleepaway camp for sick computers . "
Still , he has no plans to trade it in.
He 's waiting to see if Apple will release a new PowerBook soon , a rumor sparked by the 5300 replacement program .
" It sure does look like they 're getting ready to announce new PowerBooks , " theorized Andrew Symons , a systems manager for HotPress , a publishing company . "
The Seybold show is coming up at the end of the month , and oddly that 's when this trade-up offers times out .
So maybe it 's a clever way of dumping the older books &ndash; - they get to kill the dreaded 5300 and the legacy 190 , and they also get to clear the sales channel of the last generation of PowerBooks . "
Apple also has a replacement program in place for another of its ill-fated machines &ndash; - the 20th Anniversary Mac .
Originally sold for $ 7,500 , the machine was hailed as a marvel of design .
But customers soon began complaining about snapping , cracking , and popping noises emitting from the computer 's audio system .
Apple is offering the older , single-processor G4 machines as replacements , or the 400 MHz PowerBooks .
But terms are believed to be somewhat negotiable , including the possibility to trade in for a new dual processor G4 , using the 20th Anniversary Mac as a down payment on a reduced price .




U.S. Mobilizing Phone Assault

The rest of the world may scoff now at the United States ' seemingly slow adoption of wireless handheld devices and services -- but not for long .
One market research firm suggest that within five years the United States will develop and use mobile commerce services at an equal rate to Europe and Asia which were first to embrace the technology .
There are currently 100 million cellphones in the United States , half of which depend on analog technology that does not support digital messaging , according to financial market researcher Celent Communications .
However , a recently released study by market analyst Datamonitor suggests that Americans will develop and sell a multi-billion dollar sum of mobile commerce services -- everything from the actual wireless devices to software that permits wireless transactions and access to the web -- at a comparable rate to Europe and Asia .
Even though the report places the United States 18 to 22 months behind Europe in the production of wireless phone technology , industry key players already see it as a lucrative market .
" We 're not saying the United States is going to be the star , pioneer or the only guys out there , " said the study 's author Sohrab Torabi . "
What we are saying is you have three very strong markets .
In the past , the U.S. was considered a second-tier market , but we 're showing that it 's not . "
Torabi 's report predicts the European market for m-commerce services will grow from $ 130 million in 2000 to $ 1.9 billion in 2005 .
The United States is expected to also show a 1,000 percent increase in the value of such services , from $ 90 million at the end of this year to $ 1.2 billion in 2005 .
The Datamonitor report described the Asia Pacific m-commerce market -- estimated to be worth $ 1.5 billion in 2004 from $ 60 million at the end of this year -- as a " potential jewel in the crown for many wireless data players " because of its size and lack of fixed-wire infrastructure .
NTT wants in : Dow Jones Newswires reported through anonymous sources that Japanese mobile phone giant NTT DoCoMo is poised to buy a 10 to 15 percent stake in the proposed joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth Corporation .
Sonera and so far away:Sonera zed , a subsidiary of Finnish company Sonera Corporation , announced this week it would partner with Switchboard Incorporated to provide American WAP users with maps , directions , and information on where the nearest restaurants or other recreational spots are .
SNRA
SWBD
wireless application protocol




Sniffing Out Chemical Warfare

A portable nerve-gas detector unveiled Monday may someday be used to protect troops in the field from chemical warfare .
Although the current prototype is a perfect 3-foot cube , its inventors want the final product shrunk down to the size of a cell phone .
University of California at San Diego scientists Michael J. Sailor and William C. Trogler said they expect to test their desktop device at a U.S. Army research lab by the end of 2000 .
The pair will discuss their invention during this week 's American Chemical Society conference .
ACS
Sailor said he envisions a system where dozens of tiny nerve gas detectors that can be monitored remotely are tossed out of a helicopter by the bucketful to areas of suspected nerve gas attacks .
" They 're worried about casualties , but they 're also worried about where the cloud is going next .
immediate
They need to detect that , " said Sailor .
The results could then be analyzed from a safe distance for military or police personnel , and people could be evacuated , if necessary , in order to keep the body count from climbing .
Sailor said the miniaturized devices require less power and smaller sample requirements .
He said the sensor that soldiers currently use only works when about 10 percent of the people who were there during the original exposure have already died .
The device zeros in on sarin , one of the deadliest chemicals around .
It 's not the only deadly nerve gas , but it is one of the most common .
In May 1995 , terrorists released sarin gas in a Tokyo subway , killing 12 persons and injuring 5,500 .
Before that , sarin was reportedly used by Iraq to kill thousands of Kurdish dissidents in 1988 .
Sarin , soman , and GF chemical warfare agents " are highly toxic , " wrote Sarin and Trogler in the May 2000 Journal of the ACS .
death may follow one minute after direct ingestion of 0.01 mg per kg of body weight
The detector first begins to unravel the complicated web of lethal chemicals by evaluating the airborne moisture of a suspected area .
Then , a catalytic process breaks a phosphorus-fluorine bond in the nerve agents , resulting in the production of hydrogen fluoride , which is used commercially to etch and frost glass .
" What you end up with is this thin film of thickness , resembling the rainbow patterns on oil slicked roads , " said Trogler .
This visual spectrum is then read and graphed by a spectrometer which shows the technical information in the form of a graph .
The benefit of this machine is that it tends to be more accurate by zeroing in on specific chemical molecules , said Dr. Stephen J. Lee , chief of organic chemistry , U.S. Army Research Office .
Even so , said Lee , " the key component is that there 's not one answer on how to detect nerve gas , " because of the hodgepodge of chemicals among different gases .
" It 's hard to gauge since technology moves so fast .
So different people will have different answers on how long it will take to develop , but probably 5-10 years " for the Sailor-Trogler device , Lee said .
There are multiple methods for detecting compounds in the air , or airborne detection , said Dr. Michael Freund , director of the Molecular Materials Research Center at the California Institute of Technology . "
If have a way to make it small and cheap , then that 's a major breakthrough , " he said .
the UCSD researchers
Trogler said that false positives remain a big problem , needlessly scaring people and also making them less likely to listen to a warning the next time around . "
The next step lies in getting the sensitivity improved , " Trogler said . "
We still have to improve our detection by 100 times . "




Costs Do Not Compute

One education technology guru believes less is more when it comes to education technology , and that children can learn far more from life than from computers .
Bill Rukeyser 's opinions are not always popular .
He has been called a " turkey " and worse by those who think that computers are the crux of education .
But Rukeyser , coordinator of Learning in the Real World , believes schools are spending entirely too much money on technology that has n't been proven to improve academic achievement .
" There is an increasing body of evidence that brain development and growth of the nervous system is enhanced by an enriched environment which includes plenty of interaction with three-dimensional , real-world experiences , " Rukeyser said . "
Substituting virtual experiences is likely to shortchange a generation . "
For example , building with blocks can teach kids lessons about mass , balance , and gravity , long before a child can comprehend those abstract concepts , he said .
While Rukeyser was working for the California State Board of Education , and as an advisor to the state superintendent of public instruction in 1996 , the Center for Ecoliteracy asked him for help .
The organization provides teacher grants for training and curriculum development for hands-on science programs .
The group was having trouble getting funding , and suspected a trend leaning away from hands-on learning and towards computer learning .
They wanted Rukeyser to investigate .
Local leaders were showing decreasing interest in the Center for Ecoliteracy 's schoolyard gardens or watershed-restoration programs . "
Where are the computers ? " they asked .
" There was obviously a well-financed and very slick push to have education technology saturate the schools , " Rukeyser said .
He told the Ecoliteracy group : " You 're starting a dozen years too late and billions of dollars behind . "
But the Ecoliteracy folks would n't be discouraged .
Instead , they asked Rukeyser to set up Learning in the Real World .
The group has evolved as a nonprofit information clearinghouse focusing on education technology in K-12 schools , and specializing in the effects of computer use in cognitive development on children from birth through 11 years .
Rukeyser hopes that by examining the costs and benefits of education technology , administrators can make more informed decisions about how much money to invest .
" In terms of the amount of dollars being spent on technology in schools , there is not the substantial body of research that there really should be , " Rukeyser said .
Learning in the Real World estimates that $ 100 billion is spent annually in the United States on education technology , and that 's just in initial costs .
To keep systems current , the group estimates that an additional $ 33 billion must be spent every year .
Meanwhile , Rukeyser says , there 's no definitive data that proves computers increase students ' achievement , and some even suggest they might hinder it .
Education technology advocates -- including politicians Al Gore and Newt Gingrich , in addition to the myriad hardware and software companies that have targeted schools as a vast , untapped market -- apparently do not agree .




Intel Muscles In on Handhelds

SAN JOSE , California -- Intel introduced a new chip for handhelds and cell phones on Wednesday that could operate at speeds comparable to today 's fastest desktop PCs .
Intel 's new XScale chip will be capable of running at speeds approaching 1 GHz -- the same speed as the fastest desktop chips available today from Intel and Advanced Micro Devices .
Unveiled at the Intel Developer Forum , Intel 's biannual technical gathering for hardware and software developers , the XScale is actually a new microarchitecture , or basic floor plan , for a family of chips that could be used in a host of devices .
According to Intel , the design is flexible enough to be used in devices ranging from battery-powered personal digital assistants to Internet infrastructure equipment like switches and routers .
Intel said low power versions of the XScale chips are suitable for wireless Internet access devices , like handhelds , where battery life is more important than the speed of the chip .
Alternatively , speedier versions of the chip could be used for networking processors , where power requirements are n't an issue .
Intel said XScale chips can even change their voltage requirements on the fly depending on the task , cranking the speed up for a processor-intensive task like decoding video , or backing down while doing something relatively passive like displaying the text of an email .
Cary Snyder , an analyst with market research firm MicroDesign Resources , cautioned that the fastest XScale chips are unlikely to make their way into handhelds that run on a pair of AAA batteries .
" Basically , the bigger the battery , the higher the megahertz , " said Snyder . "
A handheld is n't going to have the power . "
to run a chip at 1 GHz
However , Snyder said devices with more juice , like notebooks or subnotebooks , may have speedier versions of the chip .
Depending on the kind of device they are destined for , the chips can also include special co-processor engines for decoding Internet multimedia that is delivered over a wireless connection , such as video , Intel said .
Michael Sullivan , an Intel spokesman , said in terms of sheer volume , the XScale chips are potentially the biggest chips Intel has ever produced .
He cited forecasts of 1 billion wireless Internet devices sold every year .
The XScale design is based on a chip architecture licensed from Britain 's Advance Risk Machines that supports a number of operating systems , including Microsoft 's Windows CE , Symbian 's EPOC , and Linux .
ARM chips from a variety of manufacturers are the dominant processors used in handhelds and cell phones , Snyder said .
The first XScale chips should be available by the end of the year .




MP3.com : Four Down , One to Go

MP3.com announced it is one step closer to putting its legal woes behind it after the company reached a settlement with Sony Music .
Monday 's agreement leaves the Universal Music Group as the lone holdout left in the copyright infringement case brought against MP3.com back in January .
" It is clear that Sony Music Entertainment understands and embraces the Internet and values responsible technologies that excite consumers and reward content owners , " MP3.com CEO Michael Robertson said in a written statement .
" MP3.com respects the rights of copyright holders , and now , with this settlement and license , we can offer consumers an avenue to access music online from CDs they have purchased . "
In April , a federal judge ruled that MP3.com had violated copyright with the creation of its my.mp3.com service , which allowed users to stream music from a database of music the company stored on its servers .
Before damages had been set in the case , the company settled its dispute with three of the major labels .
While terms for the Sony Music settlement were not disclosed , the settlements with the Warner Music Group , BMG , and EMI had MP3.com paying a reported $ 20 million to each label .
SNE
Included were licensing provisions for the company to pay 1.5 cents per song stored by people in virtual lockers , and one-third of a cent each time a song is streamed .
The deals would allow MP3.com to use music from four of the major labels in its My.mp3.com service .
The service allows users to stream music from the company 's " virtual jukebox . "
" Sony Music always understood that changes in technology create new ways for consumers to experience entertainment , " Sony Music 's senior vice president Al Smith said in a written statement . "
The licensing agreement with MP3.com is one of a number of initiatives that we have underway to enhance music fans ' experience in an environment that protects intellectual property rights . "
The settlement comes weeks after a judge decided to send the issue of willful infringement to a jury , and has set a trial date of Aug. 28 .
If the jury determines the company committed willful infringement , the damages assessed in the case would jump from $ 30,000 per violation to $ 150,000 .
The judge gave the labels until Aug. 7 to submit proof of their thousands of copyright registrations or lose the opportunity to claim damages .
Obtaining those copyrights proved to be harder than expected .
Sony and Universal had to scramble to obtain those copyrights , since they had only submitted eight at the original trial .
That lawsuit claimed MP3.com had 45,000 albums in its database , although three of the labels have already settled , effectively removing their violations from the lawsuit .




Intel 's Future : Is It Out There ?

SAN JOSE , California -- A lot of experts think silicon chips will reach the limits of miniaturization within a decade .
If that happens , the multibillion-dollar semiconductor industry could grind to a halt , unable to continue the astonishing rate of advances in computing power that has driven it for the previous two decades .
For many , it 's only a matter of time before silicon chips are as obsolete as vacuum tubes , replaced by exotic computing technologies constructed out of atomic or sub-atomic particles .
But do n't tell that to David Tennenhouse , the director of research at Intel , the world 's biggest semiconductor manufacturer .
INTC
Tennenhouse , who oversees the chip giant 's $ 2 billion annual R&D budget and about 600 researchers scattered across the globe , thinks there 's still plenty of life left in the good-old silicon chip .
" I think there 's still a lot of room for innovation , " said Tennenhouse , who talked to Wired News at the Intel Developer Forum , running for three days this week in San Jose , California .
" People have always said it 's going to run out of steam in 10 year 's time and they 're still saying it , " Tennenhouse said . "
There 's still a whole bunch of unexplored technology between here and the end of scaling . "
Nonetheless , Tennenhouse conceded it was inevitable that silicon chips would be superceded by some new technology .
" At some point , the computing material will shift to something else , " he said . "
I just do n't see that shift on the horizon . "
Tennenhouse said Intel is keeping a close eye on developments in cutting-edge technologies like quantum and nanotechnological computing .
But it 's not just a form of insurance .
Tennenhouse said a lot of blue-sky research informs today 's technology .
For example , he said algorithms developed for quantum computers are influencing current work on encryption and he sees a lot of potential in using molecular-level technologies as future storage mediums .
" Quantum computing has fired a lot of people 's imaginations , but it 's pretty far off , " he said . "
There 's a lot of neat stuff between here and there .
We 're more likely to focus on the neat stuff . "
In the near term , Tennenhouse sees a huge explosion in the number of devices connected to the Net -- from toasters to handhelds -- which will have profound effects on all areas of computing , from the nature of the Internet to the way software is designed and functions .
Tennenhouse sees a paradigm shift in software akin to the transformation that overtook physics in the early 20th century .
" Just as physics moved from classical to quantum , I think the computer industry is going to have to change from a deterministic model to a stochastic model , " he said .
Tennenhouse cited heuristics that are beginning to dominate speech and vision-processing software .
" These are the first inklings of change that will take a long time but will really change the way we think about software and systems .
" It 's going to be tough on old guys like me . "




Schools Grow Electronic Eyes

Ronald Blandie likes his video cameras .
Twenty-five of the closed-circuit devices keep watch over the hallways , stairwells , and bathroom entrances of Blandie 's New Jersey high school .
Two full-time security personnel review videotape from the cameras daily , and if offenses are caught on screen , the students involved are called in and presented with the visual evidence .
" You 're looking for behavior , you 're looking for graffiti , you 're looking for drug situations and that kind of stuff , " said Blandie , superintendent of the 7,000-student Piscataway school district . "
We 've caught kids on camera , and we 've disciplined kids from the camera .
Kids know it 's there . "
That knowledge alone , Blandie insisted , goes a long way in reducing discipline problems at Piscataway High School , the lone high school in the district .
When it comes to a newfound reliance on electronic surveillance , Blandie and his district are n't alone .
In the post-Columbine era of school safety , closed-circuit video , metal detectors , and door monitors are becoming routine .
Congress and the U.S. Department of Energy , state task forces , and district superintendents are among the ardent supporters of surveillance systems for safer schools .
In large urban schools where violence can be routine , administrators see surveillance systems as a way to bring a semblance of control to chronically violent hallways .
Where violence is not a major problem , principals and superintendents call the installations preventive , eager to show a tangible reaction to Columbine and other school shootings .
Twelve students were killed by two fellow students in April , 1999 at Columbine High in Littleton , Colorado .
Though Center for Disease Control statistics indicate that school-related violent deaths have decreased steadily since 1992 , an increase in Columbine-like multiple-victim homicides have helped spur an interest in technological solutions .
William Pfeffer , principal of Theodore Roosevelt Jr.
High in Altoona , Pennsylvania , said his district is among those that wanted to react to the alarming rash of shootings , even if the effectiveness of surveillance was n't yet clear .
The junior high school of 1,100 students turned on a new 12-camera video system during the last few months of the 1999-2000 school year .
Students are subjected to random searches , either with a portable walk-through metal detector or locker-sniffing dogs .
Pfeffer can call up any camera he desires on a TV monitor in his office , reviewing footage as needed .
Lacking a major history of problems in the school , Pfeffer calls the security ramp-up proactive .
" Word gets out and I think it 's had an effect that way , " Pfeffer said . "
about the cameras and searches
Certainly I think no matter what you do , somebody could do something probably .
It 's just , like I said , a proactive measure . "
The cameras at Piscataway High School have caught fighting and graffiti , an estimated 20 infractions in all during their two-year stint .
Like other schools , Piscataway also moves a camera between buses , and the district is considering expanding the installation into its middle school .
Is it all an invasion of student privacy ?
Big brother on the playground ?
Or , as suggested by a student article in the paper of a video-equipped high school in Pennsylvania , a heavy-handed blow against PDA -- a.k.a. " public displays of affection " ?
Nah , Blandie said .
" The only thing were concerned about was that we were n't going to put them in the bathroom -- which you can n't , legally . "
students
That 's real invasion of privacy , he said .
Other than that , he said , it 's a non-issue for students .
" As long as you 're not fornicating in the hallways , we 're not going to make a big deal , " Blandie said .




DTV : The Return of Rabbit Ears

SAN JOSE , California -- A developing broadband technology promises download speeds up to 10 times that of DSL , but you 'll need to stop by Radio Shack and pick up some old-fashioned gear first .
Fourteen companies this week announced the formation of the PC DTV Promoters Group , which wants to sell digital music , games , and videos for PCs using broadcast television .
ATI , Intel , Microsoft , Wavexpress , Santa Barbara Software , Broadlogic and others announced the consortium to boost datacasting via digital television as an alternative to cable or DSL Internet connections at this week 's Intel Developer 's Forum .
DTV
TV broadcasters are upgrading their towers from analog transmissions and adding FCC-mandated digital signals .
Some 150 television stations currently broadcast analog and digital signals .
To receive the signal , PCs need to add an inexpensive antenna and TV-tuner board , which costs between $ 150 and $ 300 .
Digital televisions , which have been slow to sell because of high prices , also require additional antennae .
The technology companies want to apportion part of the 19.4 megabits-per-second bandwidth to datacasting , which will allow games , videos , and enhanced TV content to be sent wrapped around the TV broadcast .
But like some cable modems , DTV is downstream only and requires a separate Internet connection to send information back from the PC .
The TV signal only requires about 5 megabits of the downstream , so the remaining bandwidth " blows away any broadband on the horizon " according to Walter Boyles , vice president at Wavexpress .
DSL connections currently top out at 1.5 megabits per second . "
We do n't think we 're replacing the Internet , " said Boyles .
But he thinks datacasting will be a more effective way to distribute selected content .
For example , if Stephen King wanted to distribute 8 million copies of a digital book , it would be more cost effective to blast it out over TV towers than to tie up servers , Boyles said .
Boyles said Wavexpress is in trials with services in five metropolitan areas including Cincinnati , Newark , New Jersey , and Baltimore .
Boyles said the company is pursuing partnerships with gaming companies and music providers , but has not announced any deals to date .




Virus Suspect is < i>Really</i> Wanted

A computer school dropout suspected of being responsible for the " Love Bug " virus that hit computers around the world in May said Wednesday he had been deluged with job offers from home and abroad .
Onel de Guzman , speaking to reporters for the first time in four months , said : " Calls would come one after another at my house , and my sister would talk to them .
I do n't entertain them because my siblings tell me there will be more offers to come . "
He said , however , that he also wants to complete his studies and produce something " educational " and not controversial .
The Philippine Justice Department on Monday dropped charges against De Guzman , 24 , after authorities said there was no law they could use against him since their anti-hacking law had not been approved until June .
The virus , reported to have caused billions of dollars of damage , infected the Pentagon , Britain 's parliament , and major companies such as Ford and Lucent .
It was traced to a dilapidated apartment in the Manila suburb of Pandacan where de Guzman 's sister lived .
Investigators alleged that de Guzman unleashed the virus in an effort to steal passwords for Internet access .
But his lawyers said he may have transmitted it by mistake .
The virus , which appeared in e-mail messages entitled " ILOVEYOU , " opened and destroyed user files , stole passwords , and replicated itself through the user 's computer address book .
De Guzman had submitted a thesis to his computer school detailing a program that would steal passwords for Internet access and post them to a specified e-mail address .
The school rejected his thesis , and he dropped out .
De Guzman said Wednesday he plans to go back to school , and he has another computer program for his thesis in mind .
" Of course I want to go back to finish school .
I 'm thinking of a new thesis proposal , but this time it would not be controversial , it would be educational , " de Guzman said .
" There will be no more Trojan horses that can be used only by hackers .
This time it will be a program for all . "
He said : " When I log onto the Internet , I think I will n't go to the hacking sites anymore .
After what happened with my thesis proposal , I 'm going to change things ...
I 've learned my lesson . "




' Pocket ' Virus Targets Kids

LONDON -- Children everywhere beware -- Pikachu is not as cuddly as he seems .
The Japanese Pokemon cartoon character has mutated on the Web into a nasty little computer-bugger , spreading himself via emails like the devastating " Love Bug " did .
Virus experts said on Thursday the cute yellow rabbit-like creature , a darling of the Pokemon video-game family , had popped up in the United States , wrecking PCs that it gets into by wiping out their system files .
" Pokey " has so far sown only a fraction of the havoc its famous predecessor did , but for a worrying reason .
Kids , not corporations , are this time the target of the cyber-vandals .
" We have n't seen viruses or worms targeted at children before , " said Eric Chien , chief researcher at anti-virus company Symantec 's European laboratory in the Netherlands .
" This is the first one . "
" Since it comes as a little Pokemon animation , 10-year-olds are likely to be more interested in double-clicking on it . "
Viruses infect a computer and cause damage , but rely on users unwittingly spreading them from one PC to another .
Worms , usually using the Internet , find their own way to spread .
This worm appears as an email with the title " Pikachu Pokemon " and the English message " Pikachu is your friend . "
Japanese anti-virus firm Trend Micro advises anyone receiving the mail to delete the file without opening it .
Earlier this year , the Love Bug raced around the world and caused damage estimated from hundreds of millions of dollars to billions -- mostly in big corporations forced to shut down their internal communications to stamp it out .
It came as an email entitled " ILOVEYOU " with an attachment that , if opened , infected the computer and emailed itself to everyone in the user 's Microsoft Outlook address book .
Pokey , aimed at children hooked on the worldwide craze , has spread far less rapidly and less far , giving anti-virus software companies like Symantec , Britain 's Sophos , and Trend Micro time to mount a defense that is now in all their products .
But once Pokey , first seen at the end of June , gets into your computer , its bite is far harder than the Love Bug 's .
It destroys all files in the Windows and System directories .
The Microsoft operating system , used by four-fifths of the world 's computers , must be reinstalled from scratch .
Love Bug 's most prevalent versions attacked data files such as pictures but not the whole system -- though without a backup these files could be irreplaceable .
With 50,000 worms wriggling round cyberspace , Chien said the key to viral fame was to appeal to human emotions .
" Love Bug was not really new but the reason it hit so many people was social engineering .
These things require people to double-click on them to run them .
And who does n't like to receive a love letter ? " he said .




Intel Says : Think Like Napster

SAN JOSE , Calif. -- An Intel executive on Thursday said Napster and programs like it will transform the Internet as profoundly as the first Web browser .
Patrick Gelsinger , chief technology officer of Intel 's architecture group , said Napster and other peer-to-peer networking technologies are " a revolution that will change computing as we know it . "
During a keynote speech at the Intel Developer Forum here , Gelsinger called on the computing industry to cooperate in hammering out standards for peer-to-peer networking , which he said will usher in the " next era " of computing .
Peer-to-peer networks allow any Net-connected computer to talk to any other without having to go through centralized servers .
In Napster 's case , a peer-to-peer network is used to share music files between users .
The music is n't stored on central servers , but on the individual user 's machines .
In a dig at Napster , currently embroiled in a legal battle with the recording industry , Gelsinger said Intel paid for the music clip that was playing as he walked onstage .
As well as sharing files -- music , pictures or video -- peer-to-peer systems can also be used to farm out chunks of complex problems between thousands of machines .
The SETI@home screen saver , for example , analyzes radio signals from space for signs of intelligent life .
Gelsiger said the potential for peer-to-peer systems is just starting to be realized .
He also said that Napster and its cousins , Gnutella and Freenet , were comparable to Mosaic , the first Web browser from the University of Illinois that made the Web accessible to the masses for the first time .
Before Mosaic there were 50 Web servers , Gersinger said .
A year after it appeared , there were 10,000 .
" Peer-to-peer could usher in the next era of the Internet much the same way Mosaic ushered in the last , " he said .
Looking forward , Gelsinger said that just as it was impossible to envision Amazon and eBay when Mosaic was created , it is impossible to foresee all the applications for peer-to-peer computing .
He did , however , suggest a few -- collaboration , file sharing , intelligent agents like virus sentinels , and distributed computing .
" We think the applications are nearly limitless , " he said .
Gelsinger demonstrated Intel 's NetBatch , a distributed computing system that uses spare cycles on the company 's servers and workstations to solve chip design problems .
He said an internal study showed that company workstations were idle 75 percent of the time , and servers were idle 50 percent of the time .
In 1990 , Intel started NetBatch with a few hundred systems .
It has now grown to 10,000 computers .
NetBatch utilizes 80 percent of the company 's total computing power , solves 2.7 million problems a month , and has saved half a billion dollars in equipment costs .
" We are consistently accelerating our chip schedules because of the mammoth , mammoth , computing power we can apply , " he said .
The system has also led to big savings in storage requirements and better network performance , he added .
Gelsinger announced the formation of the peer-to-peer working group www.peer-to-peerwg.org , a consortium of 19 companies that are mostly distributed computing startups but also including IBM and Hewlett Packard .
The group intends to establish standards for management and security , define protocols , and hammer out solutions .
Gelsinger said Microsoft was talking about joining .
Nathan Brookwood , an analyst with Insight 64 , said that Intel , the world 's largest chipmaker , clearly sees peer-to-peer networking as a way of driving demand for faster processors .
" Most people are happy with a 500 or 600 MHz machine , which is fast enough for most tasks , " he said . "
But Intel needs to make these machines seem slow .
How do they do that ?
New workloads and applications .
...
It 's a way of forcing people to upgrade their machines . "




MS Fixes FrontPage Hole , Quietly

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Microsoft has quietly plugged a security hole in FrontPage Server Extensions .
The hole made Web servers vulnerable to denial-of-service attacks similar to the ones that crippled Yahoo , eBay , and Amazon.com in February .
But was fixing the problem enough ?
Some security specialists and Web administrators say no , and believe that Microsoft was hoping to slip the solution to its latest problem silently onto servers .
" I do n't think they specifically tried to hide it , but they seem to have been trying to avoid any undue attention by discreetly bundling the fix with a service pack , " said " Sozni " of Xato Network Security . "
It is kind of like throwing a couple of personal deductions in with the business deductions on your tax forms , and hoping the IRS will n't notice them . "
Sozni was the first to find the hole that left FrontPage Server Extensions open to denial-of-service attacks .
He said he informed Microsoft of the hole on July 5 .
Microsoft acknowledged the problem and asked Sozni not to release any information on the vulnerability until they could produce a fix .
Microsoft later indicated to Sozni in an e-mail that the company planned to include the fix in Version 1.2 of the program . "
Since service releases are planned releases rather than emergency fixes , we can test them more thoroughly than patches , " the e-mail said . "
In addition , the uptake rate for service releases is significantly higher than for patches , so adding the change via a service release would get it into more customers ' hands . "
Version 1.2 , with the hole patched , was released on August 15 .
That did n't exactly satisfy Sozni .
" The issue is n't that they did n't fix the problem right away , it was that they did not issue a security bulletin and the download was placed in what seemed to me ... an obscure location on Microsoft 's website .
I even had trouble finding it until I saw a link in someone else 's e-mail to bugTraq , " Sozni said .
" It would have been more responsible if they had publicly acknowledged the problem and issued a security advisory . "
A Microsoft spokesperson said that Microsoft is currently working on additional knowledge-base articles detailing every fix included in the FrontPage Service Release 1.2 .
These articles will be available shortly on the Microsoft security website .
" Sozni is right , there is a big , bad hole and Microsoft did n't tell us about it , " said Jerry Quevado , a systems administrator for a Fortune 500 company who asked that his employers ' name be withheld because he has n't upgraded to Version 1.2 yet .
" I knew there was a new version of Server Extensions available but was n't aware of any compelling reason why I needed to upgrade immediately .
There was no mention made at www.microsoft.com/security , which I check regularly , that there were major security issues that have been addressed with this release . "
" And I can n't be the only one .
I 'd bet there are probably hundreds of thousands of servers vulnerable to DoS attacks through FrontPage Server Extensions , " Quevado said .
Sozni says that someone would have to be " playing around specifically looking for holes " in order to find this particular vulnerability .
To exploit the hole that Sozni found , a user must request a URL through the shtml.exe component of the FrontPage Server Extensions .
The requested URL must include a DOS device name followed with the .htm extension , such as http://www.example.com/_vti_bin/shtml.exe/com1.htm .
When this type of URL is sent to the server , all FrontPage operations become disabled for that website .
If the server hosts multiple sites , only the one that received the request will become disabled .
By disabling the FrontPage Server Extensions , all Web authoring , Web administration , WebFolders , InterDev , and WebBot operations for that site will be blocked .
" You could lock people out of an intranet or Internet site , you could cripple e-commerce on a competitor 's site by knocking out online order forms , and all the while the site will appear to be functioning normally .
And given that any kid can DoS websites , this is a big hole , " said Quevado .
Sozni also discovered a secondary problem when sending URLs with certain DOS device names such as MAILSLOT , PIPE , and UNC -- these requests reveal information about the server 's physical path .
For example , by sending the URL http://www.example.com/_vti_bin/shtml.exe/pipe.htm , the following error message will come back : Can not open " C:InetPubwwwrootpipe.htm " : no such file or folder .
Daniel Docekal , editor of Svet Namodro , a daily IT newspaper published in the Czech Republic , is n't surprised that Microsoft did n't publicize the Server Extensions problem .
" They have developed recently a very bad habit of hiding problems , " he said .
Docekal said that four weeks ago , when the " Translate:f " security bugs first surfaced , he attempted to contact Microsoft to tell them that all of their websites have " this funny security problem -- anybody can read sources , anybody can grab passwords . "
It took about 20 angry letters , the assistance of Czech Microsoft , and " notifying many , many Microsoft people , " says Docekal , for him to get any response from the company .
" Not that I have ever gotten a " thank you " from them , all I have are stupid responses from secure@microsoft.com .
It took them three weeks to fix it . "
Sozni also wanted to be thanked , and given some acknowledgement for Xato 's " having given them so much of our work for free , " something he does have a right to expect according to Microsoft 's official acknowledgement policy .
He added that Microsoft had been very responsible about publicizing security alerts over the past year , but says that this time it did seem like the company " reverted to their old way " of dealing with security issues .
" It 's hard enough keeping on top of the security fixes we know about without having other ones being slipped in from behind , " he said . "
If there is a security issue , it needs to be made public so it can be fixed . "




Clinton OKs Stem Cell Research

The Clinton administration on Wednesday will unveil long-awaited guidelines that will allow U.S. scientists for the first time to conduct research on human embryo cells , The Washington Post reported .
With its guidelines , the administration is stepping into a politically delicate issue that has pitted antiabortion activists against ailing patients .
The Post , quoting sources briefed on the plan , said the new guidelines spell out in great detail the ethical and scientific criteria that the National Institutes of Health will weigh as it considers the first applications for federal grant money to study human embryonic stem cells .
Experts think the research has the potential to transform medicine , offering treatments and even cures for diseases such as juvenile diabetes , in which the pancreas is partly destroyed , heart disease , and Parkinson 's .
The cells seem so powerful because , when taken from very early embryos , they still " know " how to become any kind of cell in the body .
The hope is to direct this development so they can be used for tissue and even organ transplants .
But current law forbids the use of federal funds to harm a human embryo , so federally funded scientists may not extract these cells from human embryos to use for research .
Opponents say getting the cells involves the taking of a human life , and that no end justifies it .
The Post said the new guidelines will insist that federal research be conducted only on cells taken from frozen embryos that were destined to be discarded anyway , and that no federal money is used for the destruction of embryos to get the cells .
That job would have to be done by privately funded researchers who could then pass the useful cells to federally supported scientists , creating a separation of responsibility for the embryo 's destruction that opponents have criticized as morally meaningless , according to the Post report .
The new rule will disallow payments to embryo donors and will preclude donors from specifying who should receive their embryo 's stem cells .
Those provisions aim to discourage the creation of a market in embryo cells and block any incentive for a woman to create fresh embryos just to provide a potential treatment for a sick relative .
Patient support groups hailed the new rule , which was held up for more than a year after the NIH was flooded with public comments on an earlier draft , the Post said .
" We 're very supportive of this research , " Robert Goldstein of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation in New York told the paper . "
We 'd like to see work go forward in this field , which we think has extraordinary promise . "
But others , citing recent evidence that certain cells from adults may hold much of the curative potential previously believed unique to embryo cells , threatened to derail the research funding effort .
" It 's becoming harder and harder to argue that embryonic cells have uses that adult cells do not , " Richard Doerflinger , associate director of the Secretariat for Pro-life Activities at the National Conference of Catholic Bishops , told the Post .
" I think the decision to release this during recess is deliberate .
congressional
They hope the flak will die down by Labor Day , " it quoted him as saying .
Members of Congress vowed to pick up the issue when they returned .
" I do n't think that they by law should be allowed to do this , " said Rep. Jay Dickey , who for the past four years has co-sponsored an amendment to the NIH appropriations bill precluding federal funding of any research that results in the destruction of human embryos .
R-Ark .
The Post said NIH planned to appoint an advisory committee of scientists and ethicists , called the Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Review Group , to review all embryo cell grant applications submitted to the NIH 's Office of Science Policy .
That committee will have its first meeting in December .




Home Is Where the E-Classroom Is

Some of the most tech-savvy students can n't be found in the classroom .
In fact , many of them do n't even go to school .
Home schooling has long been an alternative for parents who believe they can provide a better education at home than their kids can receive in the public school system .
While some traditional schools are struggling to wire classrooms , many home-school families are using the Internet , DVD courseware , CD-Roms , and other educational tools at home .
" The use of computers in the home-school environment is just exploding , " said William Lloyd , researcher for the National Home Education Research Institute .
" The traditional classroom is built on a 19th-century model of education .
Some home schoolers are already getting a 21st-century education , " said Scott Somerville , an attorney for the Home School Legal Defense Association .
Experts estimate that there are more than 1.7 million home-schooled children in the United States , growing at a rate of 10 to 15 percent every year .
According to a 1997 study , approximately 86 percent of home school families reported owning a computer , compared to the 34 percent national average for U.S. families .
Since the report , the number of home school families using chat rooms , email lists , and listserves has increased tenfold , Lloyd said .
" Technology has changed home schooling for a lot of families , " Lloyd said . "
It gives them more ways for teaching , more ways for deploying curriculum , and more ways for keeping in touch with other home schoolers . "
Parents choose to teach their children at home for a variety of motives ranging from medical reasons to religious beliefs to concerns over school safety or substandard educational opportunities .
For many , home schooling is an academically challenging way to learn .
" It 's both a high-touch way of life and at the same time , a very high-tech education , " Somerville said .
While some parents might not feel qualified to teach difficult subjects such as calculus or trigonometry on their own , they can easily access courseware on the Internet .
" I do n't know if technology is changing home schooling right now , but I can guarantee that it is going to change it , " said Bruce Droste , director of Virtual High School . "
There 's not one person out there who is qualified to deliver 200 content-rich courses to their kids . "
With programs such as virtual high schools , students can take a wide range of Internet-based classes , such as honors courses , that might not otherwise be available to them .
" The high school that I home-school through is rural and small , so really the only subjects that I can take are your usual textbook ones , " wrote Melinda Miller-Klopfer , a Virtual High School student who has been home-schooled all her life , in an email . "
VHS provides me with so many other options ; I am able to refine my learning . "
Not all home-school students think an entirely Web-based curriculum is the best way to learn .
" The idea is great , but the technology is not quite there yet , " said 16-year-old Melissa Sconyers , who has been home-schooled since the seventh grade and currently runs her own Web design business .
While she does almost all her work on the computer and has taken a few online courses , Sconyers prefers taking paper correspondence courses to reading course materials online .
" I would never use an e-book , " Sconyers said . "
It 's easier to have a paper booklet to get instructions . "
Some home school parents and students view the Internet as an effective tool for individualized , independent study where students can learn at their own pace .
For Lloyd , whose 15-year-old son has a form of autism , using the Internet to deploy a curriculum is an attractive alternative to the traditional classroom .
His son regularly downloads everything from technical manuals to Shakespeare , synchronizing them to his Palm Pilot .
" For him , the idea of a paper book is becoming less and less necessary , " Lloyd said .
" If you 're doing integrated study , the Web is the most amazing search tool , " said Sommerville , whose six children are all home-schooled .
Sommerville teaches his kids using the unit-study approach , where different disciplines are woven together to study one topic .
That kind of approach is difficult in traditional schools , but easy to do in the home , he said .
With limited funding , teachers , and access to hardware , some public schools may not be able to provide the same access to Web-enabled environments that can be found at home .
" There are many structural challenges that traditional schools face and home schoolers do n't , " Somerville said . "
There are no barriers to prevent home schoolers from taking advantage of this new technology .
Public schools can n't adapt in an environment of opportunities to dynamically changing circumstances .
We 've got the freedom to experiment . "
One of the major barriers is the number of computers available at most traditional schools .
While a ratio of five kids to one computer is considered good in most schools , home school parents may be able to provide each child with a computer .
" With fewer kids to teach , technology can be instantly available , " Lloyd said .
But for some parents , using technology at home is a problem , not a panacea .




Bang Bang
You 're Not Dead

A typical computer game centers around a violent war zone piled high with corpses .
But what if those bullets turned the bloody bodies into a field of healthy humans , frolicking among the flowers ?
That 's the idea behind Game Theory : Bang Bang , " a new exhibit designed by Kathleen Ruiz at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy , New York .
you 're not dead ?
Ruiz , an assistant professor of electronic arts at the school , has created a multimedia art exhibit that confronts the hot-button issue of violence in computer games by satirizing it .
" We 're trying to say that there are other things that can be done besides using this technology to kill , " Ruiz said . "
There are so many alternative experiences -- poetic , spiritual , and personal -- that we can use the technology to work with . "
" I was trying to turn this around a little bit with the show , " Ruiz said .
use of technology
Viewers have a chance to play the role of first-person shooter in the exhibit .
Each person sits on a toy chest and takes aim at an 8-by-12-foot digital projection screen mounted on the wall .
This is not a typical gaming environment , however , where the goal is to kill the bad guys .
Instead , players can aim at dead people onscreen and try to resurrect them .
" It 's wonderful to see expression when they shoot at something and it gets up and walks away , " said Linda Freaney , the director of the permanent collection at the Woodstock Artists Association in Woodstock , N.Y. , where the exhibit is currently on display .
the player 's
In another scenario , a pile of blood and guts morphs into a dove or flower when shot .
a so-called giblet , or gib , in gaming terminology
When the player hits the gib , she hears the sound of one of the four elements -- earth , fire , water , and air -- which symbolizes bringing the object back to life .
During the exhibit , harps and soothing music -- not gunshots -- echo through the halls .
Observers can also watch a video of young people frantically manipulating joysticks and shouting as they play computer games .
Viewers can see for themselves the intensity of the games , and the emotions that it brings out , Ruiz said .
Walking through the rest of the exhibit , poster-sized prints of teenagers armed with fake guns and playing violent computer games line the walls , giving the viewer a sense of being caught in an imaginary crossfire .
Rich Czyzewski , a recent computer science graduate at Rensselaer and a gamer himself , helped Ruiz build the animation for the exhibit .
And though he plays violent computer games , he believes that nonviolent games can be just as fun , depending upon the designer .
For example , Sim City , a popular game where users build their own town , rarely has any violent overtones , he said .
" This is an inspiration to designers to bring about a new gaming age , " he said .
exhibit
That may be welcome news to concerned parents .
" Bang , Bang " was an eye-opener for some parents who are unaware of the games their children play , Ruiz said .
you 're not dead ?
" They drop the kids off at the mall , and they do n't see what their kids do , " Ruiz said .
at the arcade
" It 's making a lot of people think about whether or not video games desensitize our youth , " Freaney added .
Indeed , an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission found that the the film , recording , and video-game industries all aggressively market violent content to children , the Washington Post reported on Sunday .
The report , to be released next month , was ordered by President Clinton last year in the wake of a number of school shootings , including the massacre at Columbine High School in Littleton , Colorado .
Nevertheless , Ruiz points out that she is an artist , not a sociologist .
" could be cathartic and it could be desensitizing , " Ruiz said . "
Violence in games
I do n't know .
I 'm just an observer . "
Portions of the exhibit can be viewed on the Web .
The Web version was featured at arts festivals in Austria and Switzerland last year .
" Bang , Bang " runs through Oct. 16 at the Woodstock Artists Association before hitting the road .
you 're not dead ?




A City With a Broadband Future

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Size does n't matter when you 're smart .
The World Teleport Association has named LaGrange , Georgia , the " Intelligent City of the Year . "
WTA
pop . 27,000
" This is the premier international award for any community that understands technology and its role in the global economy , " said Joe Maltese , director of community and economic development for the City of LaGrange .
" To be told by the WTA , ' LaGrange , you stand out in the world today , ' is quite an honor . "
LaGrange&rsquo;s mayor , Jeff Lukken , called the award " the Mt. Everest of awards for any city committed to creating a better life through information and technology . "
LaGrange , located 60 miles southwest of Atlanta , competed against thousands of cities around the world for the award , beating major business capitals such as New York , Chicago , London , and Toronto .
Louis A. Zacharilla , director of global marketing for the World Teleport Association , said the award does n't mean that LaGrange is more technologically advanced than other cities .
" One can not compare the technological resources of the world 's more robust broadband communities to one with fewer than 30,000 people .
But LaGrange 's aggressiveness and clarity of purpose , and the way they embraced new ideas -- including the ability to deliver Internet access to every citizen -- gave them an edge .
Some places have a lot of technology , but have n't harnessed it to effect real changes , " explained Zacharilla .
David Aden , an economist studying the effects of Internet infrastructure on cites , said that LaGrange definitely deserves to be honored .
" The city could have died when its textile industry faded .
But instead they built fiber-optic networks , and offer(ed) low-cost broadband services to local businesses and the town 's citizens .
They should be commended .
Too many small towns simply build an industrial park and offer relocation assistance to lure companies in.
LaGrange offers all of that , and sophisticated Internet infrastructure .
They understood that big bandwidth wins business for small cities . "
LaGrange also offers all of its residents free , fast Internet access via cable modem connections .
The city provides all the needed hardware , software , and access fees .
The town 's 60-mile fiber network and 150-mile broadband hybrid fiber-coax network also provides businesses with two-way , high-speed connectivity and advanced voice , data and video transmission capabilities .
Zacharilla said that the WTA defines cities or regions as " intelligent " when they use information and broadband communications technology to attract businesses , stimulate job creation , generate economic growth , and improve the delivery of government services .




Gates : Globalization Is Good

MELBOURNE , Australia -- Cognizant of being squeezed by a human tourniquet of protesters , captains of global industry mixed platitudes about the digital age with expressions of the need to better communicate with their opponents .
The first session of Tuesday 's confab of business and government sponsored by the Switzerland-based World Economic Forum was called " The Big Picture : Asia and IT Revolution . "
But as executives went through presentations about the march of technology , they could n't ignore the din outside the casino complex , where thousands of protestors railed against unbridled corporate power , unchecked labor exploitation , environmental degradation , and other perceived global ills .
" I 'm sure there is a very diverse set of viewpoints represented outside , " said Microsoft chief Bill Gates , a featured speaker at Tuesday 's sessions . "
But the people who are against world trade , those are the people we 'd really like to talk to .
" The fact is that as living standards have risen around the world , world trade has been the mechanism allowing poor countries to increasingly take care of really basic needs , things like vaccination . "
" Fundamentally with world trade , " Gates continued , " if you block it , the big losers are the poor people of the world , and I 'm not sure that gets articulated as clearly as it should be . "
The range of executive views came in response to an audience question posed to panelists about what they had to say to outside protesters .
Gates ' view was only one of those offered inside the conference .
In a later session , titled " Globalization : What does it mean for the Asia Pacific ? "
Vandana Shiva , director of the Research Foundation for Science , Technology , and Ecology in India , said protest against globalization is against an increasingly tilted playing field .
" Everyone wants world trade , people want prosperity , " she said . "
What has caused protests is the deregulation of trade .
People do n't want prosperity where the minority makes a profit at the expense of the many . "
She went on to say that less than 2 percent of humanity is involved in activities now broadly described as part of the " knowledge society " that now grabs all the glossy headlines .
" Therefore , if you are looking for new markets , you need to find people with money to buy what you have to sell , " she said . "
So the first thing you need to do is ensure people have incomes . "
Speaking about the meeting 's location in a casino , she likened the global economy to a " casino economy " dominated by rapid , unemotional , profit-centered capital flows that do n't recognize the deeper needs of all humanity for such basics as clean water .
In a later speech to the same gathering , Sharan Burrow , president of the Australian Council of Trade Unions , said governments need to find a more sustainable and tolerant view of economic development .
" Globalization holds huge potential , and it could be the answer to many of the world 's problems , " she said . "
However , this would require political will based on equity and justice , yet governments have constantly shown themselves weak in relation to their promises . "
Cosseted in the cushioned confines of Melbourne 's riverside Crown Casino , conference attendees could not hear any of the din from outside protests .
That was because the conference center -- characteristic of most such facilities but particularly those in casinos -- had no windows .
On Monday , about one-third of the roughly 800 delegates to the conference were turned back by a human chain of protestors , many with the avowed aim of shutting the meeting down through a non-violent human blockade .
The protest was a continuation of protests held late last year at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle , and meetings early this year in Washington of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank .
It was unclear how the protests would unfold Tuesday , the second day of the meeting .
" The great thing about democracy is that people can express their views , even if I disagree with some of them , " said Eric Schmidt , chief executive officer of Utah-based networking firm Novell . "
Ultimately , they vote . "




How ' Windows Me ' Comes to You

SEATTLE -- When Microsoft 's latest Windows operating system goes on sale next month , do n't look for Bill Gates jamming on stage with rock stars or hamming it up with Hollywood actors .
Instead , check your local shopping mall .
Microsoft is taking the latest version of its computer operating system for home users on the road in an unusual tour designed to lure average folk to open their wallets to the new software , the company said Tuesday .
The tour marks a departure from Microsoft product launches of yore -- huge , glitzy galas studded with pop singers , actors , and hours and hours of staged demonstrations .
Instead , mall shoppers in 25 U.S. cities from San Francisco to Baltimore will be treated to hands-on demonstrations of the new software , which is the successor to Windows 98 .
" Windows Me is the first product where we 've put a stake in the ground where we are saying this is 100 percent for the home user , " said Windows Me product manager Art Pettigrue .
Microsoft has tried to direct average consumers towards Windows Me instead of Windows 2000 , its powerful operating system for business users that launched in February with a performance by Carlos Santana and appearances by Patrick Stewart of Star Trek : The Next Generation fame .
Windows Me , short for Millennium Edition , is packed with consumer-friendly features such as video editing and digital music software and home networking tools .
" We wanted to provide a launch that is very meaningful and relevant to home users ... to let them be a part of this launch , " Pettigrue said .
Working from a booth in the mall , Microsoft technicians will show people how to use the new features , letting visitors shoot their own videos , edit them on the spot , and post them on the Internet .
Or they can try downloading songs from the Internet and sample the Windows Media Player for organizing and playing music that Microsoft has bundled into Windows in hopes of tapping the growing market for digital entertainment .
Other demonstrations will show people how to hook up two or more PCs in their home using Windows Me , and then use the home network to share files or play video games against each other .
Windows Me will formally go on sale on Sept. 14 at a price of $ 209 for the full product or $ 109 for an upgrade from Windows 95 .
Users of Windows 98 can upgrade for $ 60 as part of a promotion to spur adoption .
Shares in Microsoft were up 1 at $ 72-5/16 in early afternoon trading on the Nasdaq .
The company has recently traded near its 52-week low of $ 60-3/8 , having tumbled from a year-high of $ 119-15/16 set back in December .




Dear Student : We Pay If You Stay

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
It 's a good time to be a computer science student .
Multinational companies with offices in Central Europe and Asia are quietly trying to plug the brain drain that 's siphoning technical talent to the United States by offering to pay for the education of their best and brightest applicants .
The catch : Students have to attend local schools and then work in their home countries for a specified period of time after graduation .
The United States is still the most popular destination for foreign students , drawing about 578,000 in the 1998-99 academic year , according to the Department of States International Information Programs .
But the number of foreign students attending college in the United States has been dwindling , according to SIIP .
Five years ago , about 40 percent of all international students studied in the United States .
Today , it 's 32 percent .
The decline is attributed to aggressive recruiting problems in students ' own countries and in others , especially in the computer science fields .
The high cost of tuition at American colleges and universities is also to blame .
U.S. schools are battling back .
President Clinton recently suggested that " educational institutions , state and local governments , non-governmental organizations , and the business community " should " review the effect of U.S. government actions on the international flow of students and scholars as well as on citizen and professional exchanges , and take steps to address unnecessary obstacles , including those involving visa and tax regulations , procedures , and policies . "
In response , the Immigration and Naturalization Service has eased work rules for foreign students .
And some colleges are considering adjusting the amount of funds made available for grants to foreign students in order to fill in the gaps caused by weak exchange rates .
It may not be enough .
International students increasingly are being tempted with offers of free education and guaranteed jobs after graduation if they attend school in their own countries .
Mark Pataki , 21 , from Nagykanizsa , Hungary , had seriously considered attending school in the United States .
He has family in the United States and he speaks English fluently , so the transition would be an easy one .
He looked into programs such as the one offered by New York University , which partnered with CitiBank to offer " CitiAssist Global , " a Web-based private loan program specifically for international students .




Pretty Good Bug Found in PGP

A bug in newer versions of Network Associates ' popular PGP software exposes purportedly scrambled communications to prying eyes .
Network Associates confirmed the vulnerability on Thursday after it was discovered by a German cryptanalyst .
NETA
The glitches allows malicious attackers to hoodwink Windows versions of PGP into not encoding secret information properly .
The bug appeared in controversial features that the company included to satisfy government and corporate demands for key recovery , a technology that allows a third party to read encrypted communications .
PGP V5 and V6 for Windows will erroneously encode messages to someone 's public key that has been modified by an attacker .
But anyone who uses those versions and receives public keys -- used to scramble messages being sent to a recipient -- from a trusted source will n't have problems .
Ralf Senderek , who wrote a detailed paper on his discovery , said the programming error lets a sophisticated attacker authorize himself as a reader of messages " without the user 's consent or knowledge . "
Network Associates said it plans to post a fix on its PGP website soon and to notify customers of the update .
" Way back in 1998 a bunch of us cryptographers predicted that adding key escrow would make system design harder , and would result in even more security problems , " Counterpane 's Bruce Schneier said in an email message . "
This is an example of that prediction coming true . "
In December 1996 , the company that became Network Associates joined the Key Recovery Alliance , a group of dozens of companies trying to promote the idea of key recovery and key escrow technologies .
Federal government regulations at the time gave preferential treatment to such products .
Because of PGP 's long history of institutional opposition to key recovery , Network Associates dropped out after buying the smaller software company .
But in February 1998 they purchased Trusted Information Systems , a founder of the Key Recovery Alliance .
" Trusted Information Systems has been a pioneer in key recovery and the Key Recovery Alliance where over 60 companies and systems vendors like IBM , Hewlett-Packard , Sun Microsystems , Boeing and Motorola are supporting their key escrow capability that allows for the export of strong encryption under U.S. Commerce laws , " Network Associates CEO Bill Larson said in an interview on CNNfn at the time .
Months later , Network Associates had quietly rejoined the Key Recovery Alliance .
PGP 2.6 is not vulnerable to the attack , since it does n't support the signatures used for key recovery .
GNU Privacy Guard , which is PGP-compatible free software , will not erroneously encode messages to untrusted recipients .
But an attacker can modify GPG public keys , add himself as a trusted recipient , and distribute them to unwary users




The Mainstreaming of Kiddie Porn

When Wayne Camolli emerged in handcuffs from his dilapidated , roach-infested home in a Florida suburb last week , he looked every bit the kid porn peddler -- investigators said he had a " kind of Unabomber appearance . "
It was a relief to many in one noticeable aspect : He did not look like the man next door .
But while Camolli and his living conditions made for sensational television coverage , he is n't the poster boy for child pornography that some might have hoped .
And he is n't nearly as underground .
In fact , this man was so out in the open with his trade that he operated a very public email group on egroups.com , a site that caters to a mainstream Internet audience .
And his group , called " picman's_list , " announced rather openly that it was " dedicated to nude male teen and twink pix . "
slang for young boys
Perhaps more disturbing is the fact that this one list had over 3,000 members .
Disturbing , yes , experts say .
But not surprising .
" The Internet has made it much easier for child pornography traders and collectors to ply their trade , " said Layne Lathram , spokesperson for the U.S. Customs Service , the government agency responsible for handling the vast majority of child pornography cases .
Gone are the days when one had to travel to the seedy corner store and ask for the contraband material under the counter , or face the mailman delivering a brown paper package , she said . "
They can sit there in their basement and feel relatively anonymous in front of their computers .
It is now a faceless exchange . "
And as the numbers of arrests continue to grow , the evidence of exactly who is sitting behind those computers shows that everyone from business executives to suburban housewives are in on it -- the kind of people who do live next door .
" In the old days , before the Internet , before the ease of communication , pedophilia and child pornography were disgraceful things , " said Lathram .
She said the fear of getting caught prevented most people from acting out on their predilections then .
Now , people go onto newsgroups and find forums like " dadsanddaughters " and " babyrape , " she said , and suddenly do n't feel so alone .
" They 're finding validation out there , " said Lathram . "
They say , ' Wow !
Look !
I 'm not so bad , I 'm pretty mainstream .
' "
Egroups is far from alone in having this problem .
AOL is often cited by law enforcement officials as an ISP that has grappled with illegal distribution of pornography since the mid-1990s .
Experts say there are several reasons for the mainstreaming of this illegal fetish , and technology is always at the top of the list .
" If I 'm going to blame anything , I 'm going to blame the technology , " said Fred Lane , Internet pornography expert and author of Obscene Profits : The Entrepreneurs of Pornography in the Cyber Age .
Distribution is almost a no-brainer these days , he said , and manufacturing has become a whole lot easier with the introduction of the digital camera .
" All it takes is a fairly forceful adult with a digital camera , " he said .
Indeed , the world of child pornography has undergone a sea change in the last few years .
Experts say the relatively static pool of illegal images produced in the 1970s has given way to a new crop of photographs .
" We 're starting to see a significant growth in the production of new child pornography , " Lane said .
U.S. Customs special agent Greg Stine , who works on child pornography cases full-time in Palm Beach County , Florida , agrees .
" I think that 's a fair assessment , " he said . "
Child pornography -- it 's like kicking over a rock and ants scurrying everywhere . "
Child pornography fighters like Parry Aftab , an Internet lawyer who operates online safety site Cyberangels , sees this growth firsthand .




And Now , a Song from Our Sponsor

If the tremendous popularity of Napster has proven anything , it 's that consumers want their music quickly , easily , and on-demand .
So the fact that many of the virtual locker services such as myplay.com and my.mp3.com have unwieldy upload times has been a drag in terms of attracting audiences .
That , combined with litigation up and down the music scene , has contributed to a situation that has ground the digital music revolution to a halt .
So with individual consumers turning away in droves , music companies are looking for alternative ways to get subscription services up and running .
One of the newest ideas is peddling those subscriptions to other businesses .
" We are really looking at alternatives to selling subscriptions , " said Chris Montgomery , vice president of channel development at MP3.com . "
MPPP
We need to get our content out to the audience , and retailers need flexibility in distributing the music . "
One of the more innovative approaches to music subscriptions is happening at the San Diego company where Montgomery and his team are trying to develop sponsorship models .
In a sponsorship model , a company pays a monthly licensing fee to MP3.com in return for access to all the content in a certain genre .
Retailers and businesses looking to target certain demographic markets would add music to their product to fit their clientele .
Currently , the company has a classical music channel and children 's channel .
But a recent agreement with the Beggar 's Group -- whose labels include the Beggar 's Banquet among others -- will give the company the name recognition it did n't have with its other channels .
" We really want to push the boundaries and prove that this concept is going to work , " said Chris Montgomery , vice president of channel development at MP3.com . "
As people come in and purchase these channels , we want to go to all of our labels and say that we have partners willing to work with them . "
Montgomery said that there would come a day when a corporation would pay to sponsor an artist , allowing music to be free to consumers .
" Why could n't we have a Sting channel that was supported by Hewlett Packard and Jaguar , so that users could have access to live tracks from the current tour or back catalogue materials , " Montgomery said . "
Maybe you have to fill out a questionnaire or something , but if you 're a consumer , you do n't care . "
for marketing purposes




Battlin ' Bots : Now That 's Comedy

Click . Click .
A talking head on CNN . Click .
Golden-hipped gyrations set to hip-hop love songs on VHI . Click . Click .
A giant spinning blade squealing its way into the armor of a remote-controlled chunk of bizarre robotics .
Do n't adjust your set .
It 's only BattleBots , a new series that moves the long , proud tradition of robot fighting onto primetime cable .
The channel : Comedy Central .
" Our goal is to be your No. 1 network for robotic sports , " said BattleBots executive producer Bradley Anderson . "
Survivor is a game show -- it 's one person wins a million dollars .
This is four robots win . "
The four winners come from an initial pool of 200 bots .
The show features homemade remote-controlled robots trying to render each other useless in the context of the " BattleBox , " a 48-foot-square " Thunderdome " of robot fighting .
The arena 's shatterproof glass stands 20 feet tall and lurking inside it are traps , bumpers , sledgehammers , and pop-up saws and spikes .
" Steel Survivor " is what one Internet poster dubbed it .
The series premieres Wednesday , Aug. 30th .
A half-hour preview has been running on the network this week .
But on a comedy channel ?
What 's so funny about robot fighting ?
Robot wars have hit the small screen before in the form of pay-per-view sports and ESPN2 programs .
But Anderson thinks it 's found its real home on Comedy Central .
" Taking robotics seriously as a sport , like football , I do n't think is the appropriate answer , " he said . "
I really do think it 's a quirky sport and that 's why it 's perfect for Comedy Central .
Our goal is not to be ha-ha funny .
Our goal is to take serious competitions and put a serious take to it -- which makes it even more funny . "
Think WWF .
Indeed , the show has all the slickness of a WWF broadcast , replete with muscular " battlecasters " behind an unnecessarily large desk and a background rich in action-filled TV screens .
Human competitors don provocatively sloganed T-shirts . "
Kill All Robots . "
Everyone 's ready to rumble , from color commentators to play-by-play by ESPN 's Sean Salisbury .
Expert analysis is provided by roboteer Bill Nye .
There 's even Baywatch 's Donna D'Errico to round out the , er , appeal of the broadcast team .




Smells Like Memory Loss

A scratch-n-sniff odor test developed by Alzheimer 's researchers is being touted as a strong indicator of early signs of the disease .
Over a period of 20 months , a team of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center researchers gave an olfactory test to 90 patients already suffering from mild cognitive dysfunction .
Writing in the Sept. 1 issue of the Journal of American Psychiatry , Dr. D.P. Devanand said that a person 's sense of smell is one of the first parts of the neurological system that Alzheimer 's attacks .
All 19 patients with mild cognitive impairment who developed Alzheimer 's over the course of the study had low olfaction scores , the study found .
None of the 30 individuals who scored well on the test developed Alzheimer 's disease during the follow-up period , which averaged 20 months .
Devanand cautioned that his results are very preliminary , a sentiment echoed by Dr. Bill Thies , vice president of medical and scientific affairs for the Alzheimer 's Association , a patient advocacy group .
" I think it 's an interesting study and an interesting area to pursue , but as far as becoming a full-fledged diagnostic test , the study is too small , " Thies said .
Devanand acknowledged that " when people have mild memory loss , it 's difficult to make an accurate diagnosis of who is going to get Alzheimer 's over time . "
The current method of diagnosing the disease takes into account age , education level , and performance on a variety of memory and cognitive tests .
But Thies said that the study is an improvement over past smell tests because participants were evaluated over a longer period of time , and researchers only included patients with pre-existing cognitive problems .
Those already suffering memory problems are at highest risk for the degenerative disease , which causes a person to forget recent events or familiar tasks and eventually leads to confusion , personality and behavior changes , and impaired judgment , according to the Alzheimer 's Association .
Researchers tested a simple scratch-n-sniff test , the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test .
Forty common smells such as menthol , peanuts and soap were evaluated in a 15-minute , multiple-choice exam by subjects who averaged 66.7 years old .
The subjects had an average of 15 years of education .
Devanand said that while an early Alzheimer 's diagnosis could allow a patient to get treatment during the disease 's milder stages , at this point a timely diagnosis is most beneficial for a patient 's ability to plan his or her future .
" Once the disease progresses , you will n't be able to participate in key decisions on legal issues and care-giving issues , " said Danny Chun , a spokesman for the Alzheimer 's Association .
It 's only been in the past decade that scientists have made headway against the disease , Chun said .
The first effective drug , cognex , did not come along until 1993 , he said .
The Food and Drug Administration approved two more drugs during the '90s : aricett and exelon .
" Ten years ago , someone would have said , ' What 's the point of early detection ?
' " Chun said .
But he said the current medication keeps patients on a " plateau , " where they can function much better .
About 4 million Americans have Alzheimer 's .
Advocates estimate that approximately 10 percent of all people over 65 , and 50 percent of those over the age of 85 will get the disease , for which there is no known cure .
Alzheimer 's was first described in 1906 .
How rapidly it advances varies from person to person , according to the Alzheimer 's Association .




Emulex Stock Tanks After Hoax

NEW YORK -- Emulex Corp. said Friday it had been the victim of a hoax that caused the data networking equipment maker 's stock to plummet over 50 percent .
A press release , which appeared on Web-based news dissemination service Internet Wire , said the company 's chief executive had resigned and Emulex had been forced to restate 1998 and 1999 earnings , as well as revise the fourth quarter to a loss from a gain .
EMLX
Internet Wire spokeswoman Amy Orebaugh confirmed the release did appear on the service , but declined further comment pending a company statement .
Emulex said the release was not from them .
" We have not put out a company press release today , " said Kirk Roller , Emulex senior vice president of sales and marketing . "
Someone put out a release that looks like an Emulex release , using the Emulex name and logo . "
The false release also said Emulex was under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
SEC
The news was picked up by Bloomberg and Dow Jones news wires , which use Internet Wire as a source of news .
Shares dove , and were down 48-1/16 at 65 when they were halted for trade at about 10:30 a.m. EDT .
Trade resumed around 1:30 p.m. and shortly after were trading 3-1/16 lower at 110 , following a statement by the company saying the release was a fake .
Emulex President and Chief Executive Paul Folino said in the statement : " The negative statements in this fictitious press release are categorically false . "
He added that the company was launching its own investigation into the matter , in addition to contacting proper authorities .
" We are working with the SEC and Nasdaq surveillance to investigate who is responsible for this , because they used our company logo and name , and made it look like an Emulex release , " said Roller .
The Chicago Board Options Exchange said it was investigating " unusual " trading activity in Emulex shares .
The erroneous news was picked up in headlines and a story by Bloomberg and in headlines by Dow Jones Newswires , according to spokespersons from both news companies .
" We looked at the Internet Wire press release and reported information from that release , " said Dow Jones & Co. spokeswoman Vickee Adams , who added that the Dow Jones headlines came after the halt of trade . "
The reporter followed up with a phone call to the company ... and we reported that the news was in fact a hoax . "
" We 've removed the earlier headlines from the wire , " she added .
Bloomberg spokeswoman Chris Taylor said the wire service was " evaluating Internet Wire as a source of information . "
" We are concerned about always having our information being reliable , " Taylor said .
" We carry Business Wire , PR Newswire and Internet Wire as contributors and they are on the Bloomberg System .
We get the releases from them , they are the ones that guarantee the contents of the press release . "
Analysts said the hoax also hit the share price of QLogic Corp. , which fell sharply before the wire services exposed the hoax .
" If you were a long on either stock and jumped out on this supposed news you got murdered , " Said Bill Meehan , chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald .
" A lot of people are going to take a big loss .
I have no idea who it is but I 'm sure the government will be very interested in it , " he added .
U.S. Piper Jaffray analyst Ashok Kumar said Brocade Communications Systems Inc. was affected as well .
QLogic was down 4-15/16 at 104-3/4 , after trading as low as 74 on Friday .
Brocade was trading down 2-3/4 at 215-9/16 , after hitting a low of 206 .
The Chicago Board Options Exchange said on Friday it is reviewing Friday 's " unusual " trading activity in options on shares of data network equipment maker Emulex Corp.
" The unusual trading has triggered an intense investigation , said a CBOE spokesman in response to an inquiry .
The CBOE generates the bulk of volume in the option , which also is listed at the American Stock Exchange , Pacific Exchange and Philadelphia Stock Exchange .
Typically , the options exchange with the biggest marketshare spearheads any review of options trading .




Napster 's New Friends

Several trade groups filed friend-of-the-court briefs today with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals disputing claims made by Judge Marilyn Patel , who ruled against Napster in a case brought by the recording industry .
The Consumer Electronics Association came out in support of Napster in the company 's legal battle , arguing that Patel misinterpreted the 1984 Sony Betamax case .
" We are supporting the Napster position in that Patel made a mistake , " CEA president Gary Shapiro said . "
She made a whole new standard for ' non-infringing uses ' since there are legitimate uses for Napster .
Even if the Napster application is used for infringement , that does n't mean there are n't legitimate uses for it as well . "
While the Digital Media Association essentially agrees with the spirit of the CEA brief regarding Patel 's ruling , the group was n't prepared to support Napster .
In its brief , DiMA argues that Patel abandoned the " non-infringing use " test when determining the legality of a technology .
Also at issue is her separation of manufactured goods , such as a VCR , and a service , such as a digital application .
" The issue is whether a technology has ... policing obligations if its a product versus a service , " said Jonathan Potter , DiMA 's executive director . "
We are very concerned about that reasoning . "
The association represents over 60 companies , including America Online , Yahoo , and Riffage .
AOL
YHOO
On July 26 , Patel issued a temporary injunction that would have shut Napster down , in part on the basis that since the software application essentially remained in the hands of the creators , the corporation had the responsibility of searching for illegal activity .
Less than two days later , the appeals court granted the company a stay while the court examined Patel 's ruling .
Napster 's lawyers filed its legal brief 's on August 18 .
The recording industry has until September 8 to respond .




Finding the Perfect Fit Online

There 's a big problem with purchasing clothes online .
Buying your special someone a special something from , say , www.buyapairofpants.com , could make for awkward questions .
Honey , how big is your ...
?
Two new companies , TheRightSize and EzSize.com , have applied high-level mathematics and cutting-edge technology to solve the problems associated with buying clothes on the Internet .
But in finding out your size , the companies collect some very personal information about you , which has privacy experts concerned .
Moreover , it is n't clear that either company 's methods for determining your size is very accurate , as each firm dismissed the other 's methods as bunk .
The inability to size people accurately remains one of the biggest obstacles to online apparel sales .
Each company thinks its technology can reduce the number of returns due to ill-fitting merchandise , which cost U.S. retailers about $ 25 billion a year .
At the same time , they hope to expand online apparel sales , especially for gifts .
EzSize 's solution to this problem sounds as if it comes right out of Isaac Asimov : body scanning .
The company intends to set up scanning booths in retail locations all over the country .
You 'd go in to a booth , get scanned , and get an EzSize I.D.
That I.D. would allow you to purchase perfect-fitting items online or in stores , EzSize CEO Jeffrey Roth said .
He added that you could make your EzSize available to others for gift-giving purposes .
Roth said that body scanning solves a problem called " vanity sizing , " which he says has long dogged women buying clothes online .
In vanity sizing , clothing manufacturers label their clothes as having smaller sizes than they actually do .
Presumably , Roth said , they do it to make women feel better because they are buying what appear to be smaller clothes .
" This means that a woman could be a size 6 in one brand , a size 7 in another , and an 8 in yet another , " he said .
Roth said that EzSize aims to set the industry standard in sizing .
But this means that EzSize would compile a huge database of personal measurements -- and it is n't clear what steps the company is taking to protect that data .
Roth said that his company had not formulated a privacy policy yet , as it had to consult with " a consortium in the apparel industry " to discuss privacy .
He said that EzSize could not set its own policy because " we are simply an enabling technology . "
But even if EzSize embraces a strong privacy policy , there 's something unfitting about one company storing all that personal data in its proprietary database , said Ari Scwartz , a policy analyst at the Center for Democracy in Technology .
" People should know that when this information is stored in a database , they are losing protection over it , " he said .
Schwartz explained that data stored in a central location is vulnerable to hackers and to law enforcement officials , who can get at it with a subpoena .
Citing the Toysmart case , Schwartz said that the data would also be in limbo if EzSmart ever went out of business .
TheRightSize takes a less direct approach to determine clothing size , which , on the face of it , seems less invasive than prodding you with a scanner .
The company simply asks a couple questions : What do you own ? and How do you like it ?
Based on the information , TheRightSize 's software makes recommendations about what items you should buy from its retail partners .
TheRightSize President Krishnan Menon said that his company 's process was superior to body scanning because TheRightSize measured " fit , " while body scanning yielded " size . "
In case you did n't know , these are different concepts .




Wait Online , Not in Line at 49 ers

Here 's something for San Francisco 49 ers fans to cheer about : 3Com Park will lend fans wireless handheld devices this football season to punch in food orders , get statistics , and contact friends .
The outdoor sports stadium -- long known as Candlestick Park , but renamed in 1996 after networking company 3Com -- is currently installing a local area network that will let fans use a wireless device to order food , look up statistics on their favorite football players , and communicate with other people in the stands during a game .
LAN
" It 's fun to share the high-fives and even the heartbreak with our friends while watching a game .
And many fans like to delve into the stats that reveal a deeper level of the sport , " said 3Com president and COO Bruce Claflin .
Starting Sept. 10 , only 94 of the 69,443 seats will be equipped with wireless services .
3Com Corporation hopes to have a third of the seats wireless-ready before the end of the season .
Initially , only instant-messaging between spectators , news , and player statistics will be available .
Merchandise- and food-ordering capabilities will be implemented toward the end of the season .
3Com Corporation is talking to teams in other cities about implementing a similar network in other ballparks .
Want fries with that weed ?
Cokes and hot dogs are n't the only items you can order on a wireless device .
On September 1 , Dutch startup iToke will begin delivering Marijuana to Amsterdam residents that have ordered it through their fax machines or wireless application protocol phones .
WAP
Customers can pay for their pot with prepaid " iTokens , " or smart cards that can be purchased online .
The company hopes to roll out its service next in London , Paris , and Tokyo .
3G watch : As European telecommunications companies duke it out for a limited number of spectrum licenses to deploy their next-generation networks , a couple of companies are peering into a huge , but largely ignored market : Latin America .
3G
Phone manufacturer Ericsson said last week it would help wireless service provider Telcel to deploy 3G TDMA-EDGE technology in Mexico so that people will have access to mobile , voice , and multimedia services .
Telcel will be the first mobile operator in Latin America to deploy the 3G network .
Video messaging over a phone : When it comes to owning nifty Web-enabled handheld toys , Europeans and Asians seem to have all the fun .
Not anymore .
GEO Interactive Media Group -- a company that allows users to stream audio and video content over any cellular network -- just opened shop in New York .
The Israeli software developer has already established a partnership with Samsung and hopes to team up with U.S. phone manufacturers so that the next generation of mobile devices will let users send video messages to each other .
Streaming audio and video over a PDA : Folks with Pocket PCs -- the Compaq iPAQ , Casio 's Cassiopeia E115 , and the Hewlett Packard Jornada 545 -- can now stream short amounts of video and audio by downloading PacketVideo Corporation 's proprietary software .




Building a Jetsons-like Community

SEATTLE -- A new kind of community is going up in the Seattle suburb of Renton , where wired homes will be connected to a neighborhood intranet via their television sets .
When the 18-home Sundance community is ready in November , it will be the first " digital housing development " in the nation , according to Leo Shulman , the CEO of Vicinium , the software company providing the interactive systems .
The package of services is expected to include an " electronic neighborhood watch program " that can alert neighbors of a break-in , Vicinium Vice President Jerome Beard said .
If the neighbors choose , the response could include turning on their porch lights like an automated neighborhood watch , as well as notifying the police .
Emergency weather alerts , school messages , and even specially programmed offers from local merchants can all arrive as " inobtrusive icons " on the homeowners ' TV sets , Beard said .
Families will also be able to check the Little League schedule ; learn about local events ; and connect to any device , appliance , or control system in the home with their TV remote control .
In addition , the system supports wireless access protocols , letting homeowners access the controls through personal digital assistants , laptops , and even cell phones .
In June , the Pleasanton , California , company announced a partnership with Coactive Networks to bring smart-home and neighborhood automation capabilities to the television with a simple set-top box interface .
Beard said their NeighborMation service will also allow people to set their heating systems and other devices through either a Web browser , or a " concierge service " that the company will provide .
All of these will be offered as add-ons to the family 's broadband connections to their Internet service providers .
" They can allow their homes to be managed by the service provider , or they can go into their browser to put their furnace on and set the temperature they want , have the lights come on at a predetermined time , or they can do it from their cell phone , " Beard said .
The NeighborMation system is operated through a secure server using 128-bit encryption technology , in addition to other layers of security , to make it almost impossible for hackers to gain remote control of the home systems , he said .
" We do a fully wired package , " said Dee Wyman , of Specialized Homes , the developer of the Sundance project . "
We have our wiring people who are authorized to put ... sound to the television cameras at the front door .
We pre-wire all that , and we add security to all our houses . "
Even so , the demand for more services has outstripped even what they provide , she said .
In Issaquah , just up the road from Microsofts Redmond headquarters , the demand for tech services goes beyond what they have been offering , she added .
" I 've watched what our neighbors on the Issaquah Plateau are ordering and what they would like to have -- expansions on the wiring system that we already do , which are pretty extensive .
We 've got a few Microsoft buyers who want to take it to the next level where they are . "
One community has developed a local intranet that offers a number of services , even to the point of ordering movies online .
" I think it 's taking it to the next level , " said Wyman . "
Creating the security of a neighborhood is a part of that -- it 's kind of become a more technical method of neighbor(hood) watch . "




Mexico Loses Key Satellite

MEXICO CITY -- Mexico 's sole satellite operator said on Monday there is little hope it would revive operations of one of its four satellites , whose failure over the weekend disrupted automatic bank tellers , radio and television broadcast , beepers , and rural telephone service .
Solidaridad I , made by General Motors ' unit Hughes Electronics , stopped transmitting on Sunday at 10:45 a.m.
Mexico City time , satellite owner Satelites Mexicanos said .
Satmex
The satellite , 49 percent owned by New York-based Loral Space & Communications , carried signals for 107 Mexican and international clients .
Satmex immediately began offering space on its other three satellites , and on satellites owned by other companies , company President Lauro Gonzalez told a local radio station on Monday .
Private Mexican holding company Principia and the Mexican government own 51 percent of Satmex between them .
Some users were able to move over quickly .
But some were not prepared with contingency plans such as pre-programmed antenna adjustments to move signals rapidly to another satellite , Gonzalez said .
He did not specify which services that used Solidaridad I remained disrupted .
Gonzalez said it was too soon to tell exactly what went wrong with Solidaridad I , but he added it could be a short circuit in the backup computer .
Gonzalez said the company remains in contact with the satellite , which still had some electrical power .
But he said the central processor had ceased transmitting and added : " The chance of recovering operations is very low . "
Solidaridad I -- launched in 1994 and supposed to last until 2006 or 2007 -- was already running on a backup computer , after its main computer failed permanently in April 2000 .
The satellite , whose transmission range extends from Canada to Central America , also had a major technical problem in May 1999 .
The failed satellite is not the newest or the most important in the Satmex fleet .
More than 50 percent of the company 's business comes from its most modern satellite , Satmex V , which launched in February 1999 .
Gonzalez said most of the companies that use Solidaridad I have contracts that allow them not to pay if they get no service , and most of them do not have promises regarding restoration of service .
Nevertheless , he added : " We are working very intensely in this phase of the contingency plan , with each of the users , to make sure that they can count on alternatives in the shortest time possible . "
Satmex 's three other satellites in orbit are Satmex V , the Solidaridad II , and the Morelos II .
Gonzalez said the Morelos II , launched in the 1980s , still had two years of operating life and could possibly be moved into the Solidaridad I orbit to pick up the Solidaridad I services .
Satmex made a total $ 250 million investment in building , launching , and insuring Solidaridad I.
The income from the satellite was not insured , he said .
The current contracts on the satellite yielded about $ 20 million in revenues a year , he said .
The company posted $ 33.9 million in revenues in the second quarter of 2000 , up from $ 25 million for the same period last year , according to a company statement .
" We will be taking damages of lost income during the time it takes us to reestablish a new satellite , " Gonzalez said .
He said it would take about 30 months for the company to get a new satellite into orbit .




Cellphones Get Radiation Labels

HELSINKI -- Mobile phone manufacturers plan to start labeling mobile phones next year with the amount of radiation they emit in response to concerns from consumers and organizations , leading producers said on Monday .
Finland 's Nokia , the world 's largest mobile phone maker , is working with Motorola and Sweden 's Ericsson to develop a standard for measuring specific absorption rates , a measure of radiation from cellphones .
" We are going through the harmonization process at the moment and waiting for an SAR measurement standard which is expected to be finalized by early next year , " said Nokia spokesman Tapio Hedman . "
Once that standard is in place we plan to publish SAR value consistently for all our phones globally . "
The move comes as questions still linger about whether there is a link between mobile phone usage and cancer or other risks to human health .
" This is an issue consumers feel strongly about and we want them to get the relevant information , " said Mikael Westmark , a spokesman for Ericsson . "
With the huge increase in mobile phone users , more and more people want information about the products they use . "
Years of research have not found health risks from mobile phone radiation , but experts say more study is needed .
There are currently about 570 million mobile phone users globally and Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson expects this figure to grow to 1.4 billion in five years time .
The Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association , the U.S. trade body which represents the industry , wants manufacturers to begin disclosing radiation levels as soon as possible .
Ericsson said it plans to start labelling its phone packages with SAR values by next April .
Nokia has not given a specific date but said it would do it as soon as a global measurement standard is in place .
Motorola , which said it expects an agreement in early 2001 , also agreed to begin labelling its products then .
Manufacturers do not plan to label the actual phones with SAR values but rather the packages that the phones come in.
" All research conducted for several years has not shown any evidence of a correlation of health effects and the use of mobile phones , " Nokia 's Hedman said , adding all Nokia phones fulfilled relevant safety standards set by public authorities .
The British Stewart inquiry , which published its findings in May , concluded there was no evidence of danger from mobile phone radiation but recommended tough controls be implemented , including dissuading children from using cellphones too much .
In the United States , the Federal Communications Commission already requires cellphones to meet radiation safety standards and all manufacturers are required to give their phones SAR levels to the FCC before they are approved for sale nationally .
Consumers can already get the radiation absorption numbers for specific models from the FCC , Hedman said .
But he said the challenge for manufacturers was to agree on how SAR -- which was the best way of measuring radiation -- values could be explained simply to consumers and that all manufacturers agreed on one single measurement standard .
Some nine manufacturers , industry bodies such as the CTIA , governments and other groups were now talking about moving away from using the current two SAR standards -- one for Europe and the United States -- to a single global standard .
SAR measures the maximum quantity or radiation absorbed by a kilogram of tissue from a cellphone .
Mobile phones are , in effect , tiny radio stations that send and receive .
Earlier this month a neurologist in the United States filed an $ 800 million lawsuit against Motorola as well as eight other telecommunications companies , claiming his use of cellphones caused a malignant brain tumor .




Singing Digital Download Blues

The final chapters of download retailer Emusic are unfolding .
And whether the company survives or not , the industry is getting a first-hand look at the future of how digital music is distributed .
So with the vultures circling , it 's put up or shut up time for the entire industry .
" The digital music space is just a space where right now it 's beyond the regular show-me mode , " said Emusic CEO Gene Hoffman . "
I think the music sector is full of confusion because investors are put out because labels have n't come on board and investors have really gotten scared off by Napster . "
One of the few companies banking that consumers would pay for digital music , Emusic has faced continual scrutiny since its launch two years ago .
The company has just enough cash to last six quarters -- roughly the amount of time Wall Street analysts predict it will take Emusic to reach profitability .
Hoffman insists that his company is going to survive and thrive , despite mounting losses and the specter of file-trading applications making digital music free to the masses .
" As far as music information sites , only MTV and MP3.com have outdone us , " Hoffman said . "
On the downloadable music side , we dont really have a competitor .
When you get right down to it , we sell far more music than anybody else in this space .
The only people who can compete with us are the labels . "
Hoffman is at least partially correct in that assessment .
Since January 1998 , Emusic has sold two million downloads , signed big-name acts such as They Might Be Giants to exclusive deals , and dominated the download sales market .
But with more than 250 file-trading applications floating around the Internet -- including Napster and its 25 million users -- selling downloads online has become a shaky proposition .
" I think there are more customers being educated by the illegitimate market , " Hoffman said .
A Media Metrix study found that MP3.com decreased by nearly 40,000 unique visitors from May 7 to June 11 , while Napster 's traffic increased by 300,000 users .
Those numbers are enough to frighten any business hoping to convince people to pay for content that can be had for free .
So Hoffman and his team have been forced to get creative with their business model .
With a catalogue of 125,000 songs , Emusic is focusing more and more on the business-to-business market .
" Companies can n't work with Napster , " said Brian Alger , research analyst with San Francisco 's Pacific Growth Equities . "
They can n't go to Napster and ask for 50,000 songs to give away to their customers , so the only way to leverage music on the Internet is to go to Emusic . "
Because of the absence of major-label content -- which would be an immediate boon for the business -- Emusic has focused on signing long-term , exclusive deals with independent labels such as Epitaph to distribute all of their music online .
Emusic recently partnered with retail infrastructure company Supertracks to distribute its catalogue across a dozen online retail stores this fall .
Hoffman estimated the deal would bring $ 1 million in new revenues .
In July , the company rolled out its subscription service , which offers consumers unlimited downloads for a monthly fee ranging from $ 9.99 to $ 19.99 .
But subscription services are relatively new , so accurate estimates on future revenues are difficult to make .
Hewlett-Packard has purchased $ 3 million worth of Emusic 's catalog over the next three quarters .
HWP
" I never thought that we 'd be making our money by selling music in bulk to other businesses or consumers , " Hoffman said . "
But these have been good deals for us . "
Maybe not good enough , though .




E-Books ' Full Court Press

SAN FRANCISCO -- Software heavyweights Adobe Systems and Microsoft are furiously cutting deals to make e-book ubiquity an e-ventuality .
At the Seybold Seminars publishing conference on Tuesday , Adobe announced its acquisition of e-book software developer Glassbook , as well as an alliance with BarnesandNoble.com to become the exclusive e-book retailer of Adobe content .
ADBE
Meanwhile , Microsoft announced a partnership with Amazon.com to make its e-book reader the preferred format for Amazon 's future e-book store .
MSFT
AMZN
" The ability of print on demand is going to be a key driver of momentum this year , " said Joe Eschbach , vice president of Adobe 's ePaper Solutions Group .
Eschbach said Adobe 's ability to print books with " high fidelity " type and graphics will differentiate itself from competitors such as Microsoft and Gemstar .
" It 's not just about reading novels on Windows-based devices , Eschbach said .
It 's about secure delivery of content with high viewing and printing fidelity . "
" It 's not just about bits and bytes , " agreed Stephen Riggio , CEO and vice chairman for BarnesandNoble.com . "
It 's about the reading experience ...
We believe that the key product from the coming revolution will be content that will be printed . "
Microsoft vice president of technology development Dick Brass conversely spoke about providing digital rights management and e-book piracy protection .
DRM
" Until now has n't been much of a problem because no one has wanted to read books electronically , " Brass said .
piracy
The publishing industry must establish an honest market for electronic content before pirates find alternative markets , he said .
" That was the principal mistake that the music industry made , " Brass said . "
Our industry will n't make the same mistake ...
We 'll beat the pirates to market . "
Although copy protection is a necessity , it is n't enough by itself , Brass said .
Enforcement and education are also necessary .
In an effort to boost the e-book market , Brass announced a strategic alliance with Amazon.com , to make the Microsoft Reader the preferred content format for Amazon 's future e-book store .
With the alliance , Microsoft will have access to Amazon 's over 23 million customers .
In a separate announcement , BarnesandNoble.com CEO Riggio called for authors to start publishing content in Adobe 's PDF , to be able to take advantage of print on demand capability .
portable document format
Adobe hopes to leverage its two decades of digital-publishing expertise from developing software such as Illustrator , Pagemaker , and Acrobat to bolster its e-book efforts .
Eschbach said that experience gives it a lead over e-book competitors . "
We have a strong position with the publishing industry , " Eschbach said . "
Microsoft is unknown , unproven , and not trusted . "
With Adobe 's PDF format , users can download e-book content across multiple platforms to distribute content on a wide variety of devices . "
Cross-platform ability is hugely important , " Eschbach said . "
Just supporting a Windows platform is not enough . "
" been behind the industry in calling for secure content delivery , " Eschbach said .
Microsoft has
Microsoft 's push for open standards on digital rights may not be as inclusive as it appears . "
It 's open as long as you 're using a Microsoft platform . "
Adobe said the Glassbook reader will be able to support multiple operating systems including Mac , Linux , and Palm , in addition to Windows .
Adobe is working with the Electronic Book Exchange working group to integrate digital rights management technologies .
At last year 's Seybold Seminars , Adobe rolled out its PDF merchant , which has competed with Microsoft and the Open eBook initiative in providing a secure format for delivering e-books over the Net .




Lawsuit Aims at Short-Sellers

Technology services firm Titan Corp. filed a lawsuit in a California court in an effort to prevent short-sellers from using anonymous Internet messages to drive down its stock price .
The suit seeks damages and an injunction against further securities manipulation .
It was filed days after shares of Emulex plunged more than 50 percent when a bogus press release was posted on the Web claiming that the high-tech company 's chief executive was resigning , and that it was being forced to revise 1998 , 1999 , and fourth-quarter earnings reports .
The Emulex hoax has triggered fierce debate among investors and regulators over the Internet 's role in stock trading and information disseminating .
San Diego-based Titan said that the state superior court for Los Angeles County had , in response to its lawsuit , issued a subpoena asking Internet portal operator Yahoo to turn over its records showing the identity of the individuals who posted messages .
Titan said that a scheme employing anonymous messages on Internet bulletin boards drove the price of its stock down to $ 21 a share on Aug. 22 from a price of $ 44.75 on May 1 .
The stock was up $ 1.50 to $ 24 at midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday .
" Titan has drawn a line in the sand .
We will protect the interest of our shareholders .
Titan will not tolerate irresponsible and illegal manipulation of its stock , " said Chairman Gene Ray .
Titan claims in the lawsuit that short sellers are posting false , anonymous messages on Internet bulletin boards and using the media to spread false statements and rumors about the company .
The company said its own investigation has identified about three dozen cover names used to spread the false information over the Internet .




New Mac OS Finally Ready

SAN FRANCISCO -- The long-awaited successor to the aging Macintosh operating system will be available in the middle of September -- as pre-release software .
On Tuesday , Apple CEO Steve Jobs told a rapt audience at the Seybold Seminars publishing conference that the first public beta of Mac OS X will be released on September 13 at Apple Expo in Paris .
" Mac OS X is coming to a computer near you as a beta user two weeks from tomorrow , " Jobs said . "
Check it out . "
As a public beta , the software will likely be freely available to users with computers capable of running it .
Jobs did n't say which machines will be compatible , or how the beta will be made available , but the company has previously said Mac OS X will be optimized for machines based on the G3 chip , which include the first iMacs .
" This is really important to us , " Jobs said . "
Mac OS X is the future of the Mac . "
Jobs started his keynote speech by talking about Apple 's new hardware products , which were rolled out at Macworld in July , but after discussing the new iMacs , dual processor machines and the Cube , Jobs elaborated on the architecture of the Mac OS X and demonstrated some of its key features .
He even joked about the delays that have plagued the reworked system 's release -- the software had originally been due by now but Apple earlier this year pushed back its release as a finished product until early next year .
In a reference to earlier promises that the beta version would be released by the " summer , " Jobs pulled up a dictionary definition of " summer , " which gives the company until the summer equinox -- around September 23 -- to releasing the software .
" We 're going to do better than that , " Jobs said .
He said Mac OS X has essentially the " same heart " as Linux , granting it all the attendant benefits of a truly modern operating system .
It 's more or less crash proof , and can handle multiple tasks simultaneously , he said .
After deliberately crashing a program , Jobs showed how the machine continued to operate .
Under the current Mac OS , the machine would have frozen completely and would have had to be restarted .
" It does n't trash the system , which is really nice , " Jobs said . "
We 're dealing with fully protected memory here . "
Mac OS X includes a new graphics engine based on Adobe 's PDF format , and uses the OpenGL standard for 3D graphics and Java 2 , Jobs said .




Tracking Down the Apple Mole

Apple Computer has named the first of its " John Does " suspected of leaking trade secrets .
The company on Monday added the name of Juan Gutierrez of Santa Clara , California to a lawsuit that alleges individuals posted information on the Web revealing information about of the Dual Processor PowerMac G4 and ApplePro Mouse well before they were publicly unveiled in July .
According to Apple , Gutierrez was still an employee at Apple when the information was first posted .
Apple filed the lawsuit in Santa Clara , California Superior Court on August 2 , 2000 against unnamed " John Does " and subpoenaed Yahoo in an attempt to garner details of an accountholder named " worker_bee . "
AAPL
Using an anonymous Yahoo Geocities account , " worker_bee " posted details of a new dual processor machine and optical mouse to the AppleInsider site in February and June .
Apple is asking for compensatory and exemplary damages and an injunction against any further publishing of details regarding unreleased products .
Apple has vigorously pursued companies and individuals in the past to protect its copyright and trademark .
Last year , Apple went after eMachines and Daewoo for ripping off its iMac design on some cut-rate computers .




WAP or I-Mode : Which Is Better ?

As far as James Salsman is concerned , WAP is nothing but a flop .
The California software engineer contends that wireless application protocol , which allows cellphone access to Web content , is over-hyped and overpriced .
" My phone is WAP-capable but I would n't turn it on , " he said . "
It 's not worth it .
I 've seen advertisements on the bus for a website , and I want to check it out , but with WAP , chances are I can never do that .
desktop computer
Also , it 's very expensive . "
The problem , as Salsman and other WAP detractors see it , is in Internet markup language .
Websites have historically been grounded in the meta-data system language known as HTML , which is n't compatible with a WAP phone .
WAP phones are best served by wireless markup language .
Unless a website is written in WML , a WAP phone can n't access it .
And there are only 24,000 WAP-accessible sites in the world , according to wireless resource Pinpoint.com .
But practically every major telecommunications company worldwide is using WAP as the de facto standard to transmit data on cellphones .
Salsman believes he 'd be more inclined to use the Web capability on his phone if U.S. phone companies would adopt a service similar to that of Japanese telecommunications giant NTT DoCoMo 's i-mode -- which can read practically any Web page and charges users for the amount of information downloaded rather than air time .
with varying degrees of legibility
I-mode is served by " compact HTML , " or cHTML , which technically can allow users to access desktop HTML sites , although it looks better if it 's been written in cHTML .
" Since WAP defines a new markup language , content providers have to learn how to make content with it , " said Norihiro Ishikawa , senior research engineer of the mobile Internet laboratory at NTT DoCoMo .
Salsman and Ishikawa 's reasoning is one side of what is becoming one of the most contentious wireless Web debates .
Those who agree with them say that Japan 's i-mode offers more affordable access rates , more robust content , and higher connection speed .
However , through the WAP Forum , WAP boasts the worldwide support of over 500 major phone carriers and manufacturers that have been working together to ensure that their services are compatible with each other .
The forum was founded in 1996 by Unwired Planet .
now Phone.com
NTT DoCoMo 's i-mode , meanwhile , is a proprietary service only offered in Japan and can n't be made readily available on any other service carrier 's network .
" There is a lot of industry support and a lot of phones shipping with WAP , " said independent technology consultant Philip Mikal .
There are no statistics on the number of WAP phones in operation or the number of WAP subscribers worldwide because industry officials and analysts have n't counted .
But market analyst Datamonitor estimates that there are 16.5 million WAP subscribers in Europe .
In Japan there are over 10 million i-mode subscribers and a little over 3 million WAP users , according to NTT DoCoMo .
Officials from NTT DoCoMo and the WAP Forum adamantly deny the two technologies compete with each other .
In fact , NTT DoCoMo is a member of the WAP Forum .
But the two groups still took jabs at each other .
" WAP is put together by consensus , " WAP Forum CEO Scott Goldman said . "
It 's a democratic process by 500-plus companies around the world . "
" I-mode is a specification .
If i-mode was a superior specification or technology , then other companies would have adopted it by now , " he added . "
But 500-and-some companies have gotten behind the WAP standard rather than the i-mode standard .
That 's got to tell you something . "
WAP and i-mode users may agree on one thing : retrieving Web content on the i-mode is much easier .
Before accessing a site , WAP users must agree to pay extra charges and even type in URLs to browse through sites other than the service provider 's portal .
I-mode phones have a one-button browsing method , eliminating the need to type in Web addresses .
" I-mode is more simple but more people are using WAP because it covers so many countries , " said Nobu Morimoto , CEO for i-mode search engine ColonDot.com . "
Also , the transfer speed for i-mode is fast and WAP is slow at this moment . "
Tole Hart , senior analyst at GartnerGroup Dataquest , agrees .
" The i-mode offers a lot of content for a fairly inexpensive price , " he said . "
You can send messages relatively inexpensively : for 100 characters , about a cent and a half . "
Analysts may love i-mode , but they admit that NTT DoCoMo is going to have a tough time extending its service past Japanese borders because of WAP 's worldwide dominance .
" Because i-mode is a proprietary , closed standard , American companies , European companies , and some Asian companies want an open standard where they can have a choice of vendors , " Goldman said . "
WAP is designed to work on any network platform .
The technology of i-mode can not be deployed on other networks . "
Still , to the delight of mobile phone users like Salsman , NTT DoCoMo has indicated it may offer i-mode services abroad .
In recent weeks NTT DoCoMo has taken a 15 percent stake in Dutch KPN Mobile and claimed 20 percent of Hutchison 3G -- the alliance between KPN DoCoMo and Hutchison Whampoa -- to bid for 3G licenses in Europe .
Rumors are circulating that the company is poised to purchase a 10 to 15 percent stake in the joint venture between BellSouth and SBC Communications .
The company is already on its way to completing the purchase of an Internet service provider , Verio Communications .
That deal moved ahead last week after President Clinton shrugged off concerns that the United States could be left vulnerable to espionage if Japan 's government-owned NTT gained access to U.S. wiretapping activities .
" If our partners want to start an i-mode-like service in their countries , we will help them by transferring our technologies and the business know-how of the i-mode service , " said NTT DoCoMo spokesman Michiko Mori .
Despite the WAP Forum 's belief that its protocol will dominate the future of the mobile wireless Web , i-mode lovers are n't so sure .
Companies like Microsoft are bracing themselves to support both WAP and i-mode .
" Right now , this is a young market and many of the standards and market positions are still evolving , " said Jonas Hasselberg , product manager for Microsoft 's mobile phones group . "
Both formats have qualities that the other could benefit from .
That 's why Microsoft supports both HTML and WAP with Microsoft Mobile Explorer . "




Intel Recalls Fast Chip Fast

PALO ALTO , California -- Intel Corp. said it was recalling its new Pentium III chip because it had discovered it could fail under a certain combination of circumstances .
The company said the recall would have no effect on sales or earnings .
To date the chip , which appeared in July , has only been shipped in limited quantities .
The 1.13 GHz chip , Intel 's fastest , is targeted at a niche market of computer hobbyists and " power users " whose computers are running the most taxing applications .
Intel did not say how many chips it had shipped to date but a spokesman said it had only shipped to " a handful " of customers .
The company said the problem it discovered was in a circuit , which under the right combination of data , voltage , and temperature conditions , could cause the chip to fail .
It said it typically takes a couple of months to make changes to the chip and bring it back to market .




Genetic Altering Down Under

SYDNEY -- Australia has become the latest country to announce a scientific study into the environmental effects of genetically modified organisms .
GMOs
The A$3 million , three year project announced Monday will be carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research Organization , the research arm of the Australian government .
US$ 1.7 million
CSIRO
" We will run trials of genetically modified cotton , clover , and canola that will help determine what impact these might have on the natural environment , " said project leader Dr. Mark Lonsdale .
" A study will also consider possible ecological impacts of GMOs that are still only at the research stage and have n't been released , such as insect resistant eucalyptus , livestock gut microorganisms , oysters , and a virus that induces mouse sterility . "
" Understanding the impacts of GMOs on agricultural sustainability is a major focus for this research , " said Lonsdale .
Genetic modification is the technique of altering the genetic makeup of cells or individual organisms by inserting , removing , or altering individual genes to achieve a particular result .
For instance , one of the four organisms undergoing a risk study in the project is mouse cytomegalovirus .
This is a genetically manipulated virus that induces sterility in mice , which reduces the incidence of mouse plagues .
Scientists will investigate the risks associated with releasing such a virus to see its effect on the environment .
Researchers will study the genetic and ecological impacts of gene flow between exotic eucalyptus tree plantations and native populations .
They will investigate the risks to humans and other creatures of livestock gut microorganisms modified to break down less digestible foodstuffs .
The ecological risks associated with oysters that are genetically modified to prevent invasion into natural ecosystems will also come under scrutiny .
The new project has three parts :
- Developing new tools for assessing the risks of GMOs ;
- Studying ecological impacts of existing genetically modified crops ;
- Assessing the potential risks and ecological impacts of various kinds of GMOs that may be developed in the future .
CSIRO deputy chief executive Dr. Paul Wellings said the project will enhance work already done on a small scale in field trials .
" The application of GMOs has reached the point where larger scale , longer term environmental assessments are necessary , " said Wellings . "
We ought to look as carefully at risks as we do at benefits from our research , and to share what we find with the Australian community .
" Gene technology can expand our options to improve our health , create a safer , more secure food supply , generate prosperity and attain a more sustainable agriculture . "
Not everyone agrees with Wellings .
Bob Phelps , executive director of the Australian Gene Ethics Network says , " First the Green Revolution , and now the Gene Revolution , are promoted as the cure-all for world hunger .
Agribusiness may appear to deliver cheap food and fiber to Western consumers through global markets but the huge environmental , social , and health costs are largely hidden , especially from urban dwellers .
Genetic engineering will intensify , not solve , these problems . "
Consumers , environmentalists , and some scientists worry about the risks that GMOs pose to human health and to the environment .
Among their concerns are that GM crops that rely upon high amounts of pesticides and fertilizers could cause toxic or allergenic effects and also large scale elimination of indigenous agricultural and natural species .
Many people are allergic to food plants because of proteins produced by the plant as a defense against diseases and pests .
Since some genetically engineered plants are specifically designed to produce increased quantities of these proteins , the risk of allergies could also be increased .
CSIRO 's project is one activity under the government 's National Biotechnology Strategy , which was announced in July by Nick Minchin , the Minister for Industry , Science and Resources .
Funding of A$500,000 has been promised by Environment Australia .
The government believes the insight gained through this research will be applicable in other countries grappling with the benefits and risks of genetically modified organisms .
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS
All rights reserved .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Video Pill Probes Intestines

An Israeli company is ready to start testing its " video pill , " a tiny video camera that monitors the human intestines of patients .
The M2A Swallowable Imaging Capsule transmits two images a second .
Designers for Given Imaging used their training in Israel 's military industries to design the sensor , transmitter , and two chips that are the basis of the device .
The video-quality images are picked up by a Walkman-sized receiver that is worn on a belt around the waist .
The images are then loaded onto a hard disk and examined by a doctor .
The capsule , which contains a miniature video camera , a battery , a tiny light , and a transmitter , passed preliminary U.S. Food and Drug Administration tests that were given to animals and healthy volunteers .
Given Imaging executives in Jerusalem said they will launch clinical testing next month .
FDA spokeswoman Sharon Snyder said that she could not confirm or deny the status of FDA action due to trade regulations .
She noted , however , that the average elapsed time for FDA approval of diagnostic devices in 1999 was just over 12 months .
Given Imaging applied for FDA approval in May .
Company researchers claim the pill , 1 inch in length and one-third of an inch in diameter , offers a better and less painful alternative to conventional endoscopy , in which a probe is inserted orally or rectally .
" The patient swallows it , and can go out , doing their own business , " said Eitan Scapa , a gastroenterology specialist at Tel Aviv 's Assaf Harofe hospital .
Other researchers have expressed skepticism that the images would match fiber-optic endoscopes for detail , and they raised concerns that the camera 's view might be obscured by bubbly saliva or green bile .
The capsule can not be stopped or steered to collect close-up details of the small intestine 's millions of interior wrinkles where ailments often occur .
Nor is it fitted with surgical tools like a conventional endoscope to take biopsies , treat bleeding lesions , and remove polyps .
The pill , excreted after about four hours , was designed to examine the small intestine especially , Scapa said .
Current probing methods can only reach the upper third of the intestine .
An independent gastroenterologist , however , said the capsule poses medical risks .
" It is a revolution , no question about it , " said Simon Bar-Meir , director of the gastrointestinal department of the Chaim Sheba Medical Center in Tel Hashomer . "
But the main problem is that if there is a partial obstruction in the small intestine , there is a risk that the pill will get stuck there . "
He said such a situation could become life-threatening .
" A patient who might have come in for diagnostical reasons may end up in the emergency room for intestinal obstruction , " Bar-Meir said .
Given Imaging officials said such complications were unlikely but acknowledged that for now , it would prohibit use to those who have had major abdominal operations , a history of abdominal obstruction , pregnant women , those with pacemakers , and diabetes patients .
Company officials say the pill itself will cost about $ 300 for patients .
The entire system will cost $ 30,000 for hospitals , including the receptors and computer station .




Reporter Wins Whistleblower Case

TAMPA , Florida -- A jury in Florida has ruled that Fox TVs Tampa station illegally fired reporter Jane Akre for refusing to run a false report about genetically engineered bovine growth hormone , a controversial drug used to increase milk production .
BGH
On August 18 , The six member jury awarded Akre $ 425,000 , including $ 88,725 for lost wages , $ 120,750 for lost earning capacity , and $ 215,525 for other damages .
The landmark decision was the first time Florida 's whistleblower law has been used to protect a journalist fired for refusing to slant the news .
In the original version of their report , Akre and her husband and co-reporter Steve Wilson revealed the risks of BGH , including potential links to breast cancer and other human and animal health effects .
Testimony during the trial showed how Monsanto , the biotechnology company that developed BGH , warned Fox of " dire consequences " if the station went ahead and aired the critical report .
In finding for Akre , the jury ruled that she was fired for refusing to participate in " the broadcast of a false , distorted , or slanted news report " which violated journalistic ethics that prohibit distorting the news .
" After the FOX-owned station in Tampa was threatened by Monsanto , the direction of my story about bovine growth hormone changed dramatically , " said Akre .
" There has never been any doubts in our minds that with virtually every cut , trim , and edit to this four-part series , the public interest suffered at the hands of the station 's lawyers , " Akre said . "
We believe parents have the right to know how the milk they feed to their children has been adulterated with a chemical we do n't need and many do n't want . "
Copyright Environment News Service 2000
ENS
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Stock Hoax Suspect Had Motive

Was the man accused of sabotaging a company 's stock by issuing a phony press release a clever cyber criminal or an amateur investor who hatched a clumsy plan to cover his losses ?
Federal documents filed in the case of 23-year-old Mark Jakob reveal the man authorities say caused Emulex 's stock to plunge 62 percent went to great lengths to cover his tracks , registering at one Las Vegas hotel and making stock trades from another the day he allegedly perpetrated the hoax .
But the documents also paint a picture of a typical twenty-something who listed snowboarding and dancing as his hobbies -- along with playing the stock market .
Jakob , charged Thursday with securities and wire fraud , faces up to 15 years in prison if convicted .
He was jailed on $ 100,000 bail .
Jakob is accused of issuing a false press release last Friday stating that the head of Emulex Corp. , a maker of fiber-optic equipment , had quit and the company was restating its quarterly earnings from a profit to a loss .
The company 's stock plunged after some financial news services , including Bloomberg and Dow Jones , ran stories based on the bogus release .
Authorities say Jakob , of El Segundo , California , sent the release because he faced a huge loss from a " short sale " of 3,000 Emulex shares .
A short sale involves selling borrowed shares of a stock in anticipation that the price will decline .
The bogus release was issued through Internet Wire , an online distributor of press releases where Jakob had worked .
He left the company " on good terms " a week before the crime , authorities said .
A federal complaint claims Jakob used a computer at Internet Wire to make some of his short sales on Aug. 17 and 18 .
Instead of the stock price declining , however , it began to rise , leaving Jakob with the probability of having to repurchase the shares at a loss of about $ 97,000 , according to a lawsuit filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Instead , authorities say , Jakob made more than $ 241,000 from Emulex trades after the phony press release was delivered .
On Aug. 23 , authorities say , Jakob registered at the Luxor hotel in Las Vegas .
The next day he allegedly opened an email account using a computer at El Camino College in Torrance , California .
Jakob attended classes during the summer session but was not a student at the time of the hoax , the college said .
Authorities say he emailed the news release Thursday evening using language that led Internet Wire staffers to believe the document had been approved for release .
Friday morning , Emulex 's stock plunged .
Jakob then allegedly bought back the 3,000 shares he had sold short , using a computer at Las Vegas ' Mandalay Bay hotel .
Apparently not satisfied to merely cover his losses , authorities say that within minutes of his first trade Jakob bought 3,500 Emulex shares at their depressed price and sold them a few days later .
Minutes after the stock crash , Nasdaq halted trading after learning that the press release was false .
Trading resumed that day and the stock made up most if its losses .
Officials said they will continue their investigation to determine if anyone besides Jakob was involved in the hoax .
Already one investor has sued Internet Wire , claiming he lost thousands of dollars as a result of the bogus press release .
And a Hartford , Connecticut law firm has sued both Internet Wire and Bloomberg .
That suit , which seeks class-action status , alleges that both companies of " recklessly disseminating materially false and misleading information . "




Word Docs With Ears ?

A privacy group warned Wednesday that so-called " Web bugs " could track Microsoft Word documents as they are distributed among Internet users .
The Privacy Foundation , which was co-founded by the University of Denver , discovered it was possible to place privacy-sensitive document-tracking code in Word documents , email messages , and other HTML-aware applications .
The code makes it possible to track where a Word document goes when it leaves the author 's hands .
" A word-processing document can ' phone home , ' " explained software analyst Richard Smith , chief technology officer at the Privacy Foundation .
Smith regularly tracks software code for privacy- and security-related problems . "
If you embed a Web bug in the middle of a paragraph you can n't even see it , " he said . "
And if you copy and paste it into another document then that phones home too . "
In theory at least , the vulnerability would allow the author to find out when a document was passed from one reader to another , or sent outside of an organization 's network .
Smith said that although there is no known exploitation of the vulnerability , several likely uses exist .
A company , for example , could plant code in documents that surreptitiously detects and tracks leaks of confidential documents .
Or a copyright holder might use the feature to track possible copyright infringement of newsletters and reports .
The problem affects Mac and PC versions of Microsoft Word 97 and all subsequent versions , in addition to other applications .
Smith said the bug affects any application capable of displaying HTML-based content .
The same issue , for example , has emerged in the use of HTML-enhanced programs such as Netscape Mail , Eudora , and Microsoft Outlook , which can notify a server when a user opens a message containing a Web bug .
Smith said the Privacy Foundation 's alert focused on Microsoft Word because the application is the de facto standard for word processing and could therefore have a potentially wide impact .
" It 's just sort of this odd situation that people need to be concerned about , " Smith said . "
As the world sort of blends desktop applications into the Internet , we 're going to see more of this tracking capability .
It 's something to be aware of , though we 're not sure really what can be done about it . "
Microsoft was quick to point out that if this is an issue , it 's one affecting any HTML-enabled application , not just Word .
" This is a decision that every Web user needs to make -- whether they 're comfortable accepting cookies from a website , " said Scott Culp , a Microsoft security-program manager . "
That 's why we provide the features in IE that say , ' Accept a cookie from this website , but not a cookie from that website .
' "




' Fusion Gene ' Kills Cancer Cells

Gene therapy has taken another step forward with the announcement that a " fusion gene " -- called p27/p16 -- appears able to kill many types of cancer .
The finding " represents a powerful new therapeutic agent for cancer gene therapy , " wrote James G. McArthur and his colleagues at Cell Genesys and at GPC Biotech in the August issue of Molecular Therapy .
The p27/p16 gene was created by fusing two separate genes involved in the life cycle of cells .
Fused together , scientists believe that the genes could help to control tumor growth by blocking tumor cell division and triggering tumor cell death .
" What is very exciting about these pre-clinical findings is that the p27/p16 fusion gene therapeutic induces cancer cell death in a broad spectrum of tumor types ; including prostate , pancreatic , lung , ovarian , breast , and colon cancers , " McArthur told Reuters .
He also noted that no toxic effects were observed in normal cells exposed to the therapy .
According to McArthur , these findings are " being extended to the screening of more potent anti-cancer agents .
When we have this data , we plan to make a decision on the appropriate clinical target and will proceed toward human clinical trials . "
He emphasized , however , that the research is still at a pre-clinical stage . "
We have more work to do to see this therapy impact human disease , " he explained , adding that " this ... very productive collaboration ... demonstrates the potential for combining the significant advances being made in human genomics research with the power of gene therapy . "




Joining Forces at New Linux Lab

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Computer hardware giants Hewlett-Packard , Intel , IBM , and NEC are joining together to fund an independent , nonprofit laboratory to help speed the development and testing of enterprise-targeted Linux projects .
The Open Source Development Lab will offer access to high-powered hardware and a wide range of software to developers of new and existing projects that utilize open-source licenses and conform to the accepted open-source development models .
Caldera , LinuxCare , Red Hat , SuSE , TurboLinux , and VA Linux will provide support staff and resources for the lab .
Eric Raymond , a longtime open-source advocate , and Brian Behlendorf , co-founder of Apache , have also announced their support of the project and are already developing applications for use in the lab .
" The Open Source Development Lab will help fulfill a need that individual Linux and open-source developers often have : access to high-end enterprise hardware , " said Brian Behlendorf , chief technical officer of Collab.net and co-founder of Apache .
" It 's great that these companies are coming together to help accelerate development for this environment , " he said .
The companies backing the lab anticipate that the first ODSL ventures will range from tools for development to kernel projects &ndash; - all with a focus on getting more businesses to adopt open-source technology by making it easier to deploy and use .
" Linux is maturing faster than anyone expected , but it still needs to mature further before mission-critical applications will be appropriate for all customers , " said Daniel Frye , program director of IBM 's Linux Technology Center .
" This lab will provide a much-needed testing environment that mimics a real-world infrastructure with large servers complex networks , linked to pervasive devices . "
and
The lab , which will be based near Portland , Oregon , is expected to open at the end of the year .
It will be governed by an independent board , and its management will include open-source proponents as well as Hewlett-Packard , Intel , IBM , and NEC .
HWP
INTC
IBM
Lab staff will not focus on creating new projects themselves ; instead , they will help accelerate existing or new open-source projects .
An independent executive director will be employed by the lab to implement policy , make funding decisions , and work with developers to select projects .
The initial lab projects will be officially announced later in the year after an open , neutral process for choosing projects can be formulated and agreed upon .
" The strength of Linux and other open-source projects derives in large part from the collaborative spirit of its developers , many of whom wondered if any of the big companies who are suddenly backing open source would participate in what has been dubbed the ' Gift Culture , ' " said John Markham , a Linux developer .
" Happily it looks like at least some of them are willing to give as good as they get , " he said .




Wireless Phone Hack Attack ?

During a routine software check , a Norwegian company recently discovered what might be the first hacker attack on mobile phones and other personal digital assistants .
Norway-based WAP service developer Web2WAP was testing its software on Nokia phones with the short messaging service when it realized that suspicious code was being sent to the phones and causing them " to freeze . "
SMS
The keypad on a phone that receives this code -- which is delivered through email -- will n't work for about 30 to 60 seconds , unless the user immediately replaces the phone 's batteries .
Web2WAP said the problem has only been found on SMS-enabled phones from Nokia , but they declined to comment further .
Nokia and security experts are n't ruling out the possibility of a bug or software glitch is causing the phones to freeze .
But they are trying to confirm if the SMS code was maliciously created .
" It is already evident , based on publicly made claims , that this is not a WAP virus , " said Nokia spokeswoman Cherie Gary . "
Web2WAP
The incident that has been described is typically a temporary ' freeze ' in the execution of the phone software , caused by a tampered-with smart message sent to the phone with a deliberate intention to cause the freeze .
This can be done , for example , by sending many consecutive smart messages with non-standard content to the phone . "
Neither Nokia , which learned about the incident through the Norwegian press , or Web2WAP , will say what the code is , but Web security experts see this as the first step for hackers in disrupting wireless devices .
NOK
" There 's concern among our clients that this is part of a larger trend -- the first step for an increasingly growing number of Trojan and viruses and attacks targeted to wireless phones and Palms , that before were not considered at risk for these types of problems , " said Ben Venzke , director of intelligence production for cyber security information provider iDefense .
horses
Venzke and Nokia 's Gary say no hacker has been able to unleash a successful virus on mobile phones .
But many hackers probably prefer attacking the more ubiquitous desktop computers .
" What 's the point in creating a virus when only four people have phones ? "
Venzke said .
But the growing number of wireless phones is making them more attractive . "
Suddenly there 's a real target . "
Dan Takata , a virus specialist for security company F-Secure , agrees .
" This is the beginning of a whole new era , now that we 're moving more from the wired to wireless , " he said . "
Right now are not destructive , but in the not too distant future we will see malicious attacks on mobile phones and Palm devices . "
these attacks
Once Nokia locates a source for the problem , it will probably put out a software fix that can be downloaded to prevent the malicious code from taking effect , Takata said .




It 's Boom Time for Net Gambling

For most consumer Net businesses , the last six dot-com-bashing , stock-plummeting months have been nasty , nasty .
But for Net-based casinos , it 's apparently been a boom time -- at least according to numbers released Friday by Net filtering firm Websense .
Websense , which compiles lists of specific URLs to block for its hundreds of corporate clients , claims the number of gambling sites has mushroomed 169 percent in the last six months , with the total number of sites now topping 21,000 .
That , the company says , makes Net gambling the fastest growing industry on the Web , based on raw page growth .
The figures likely will n't come as welcome news to several U.S. lawmakers pushing bills that would ban Net gambling in the United States .
Three separate bills working their way through Congress would , if passed , rely on Internet service providers to enforce the ban by blocking access to gambling sites .
As the number of sites explodes , however , the task of blocking them becomes increasingly unrealistic .
" It will be difficult to enforce ; we 've always known that , " U.S. Senator and Net gambling opponent Jon L. Kyl told the Wall Street Journal last month . "
R-Arizona
I think there will be an evolving cat-and-mouse game as sites try to find a way around the law . "
Still , there may be less to the Websense growth numbers than meets the eye .
In the last six months , a number of Net gambling companies have started " franchising " operations , in which they give individual Web surfers the tools to set up their own gaming sites in exchange for a big cut of the sites ' subsequent revenues .
Those new surfer-built sites may look and feel different from each other , and may have different URLs , but they all share the gambling license and Web servers owned by the original Net gambling company .
" If there are 21,000 websites , they 're pointing to a much smaller number of servers , " said Sebastian Sinclair , vice president of Christiansen Capital Advisors , a research firm that focuses on the gambling industry . "
A lot of these franchising sites have hundreds of gateways , " but they share a very small number of IP addresses , and those can still easily be blocked by ISPs .
Many gambling sites also buy dozens and dozens of different URLs that all lead back to the same servers , Sinclair said .
He estimates that there are fewer than 350 distinct Net gaming companies .
Nevertheless , he said , there 's no mistaking the Net gambling boom .
Christiansen Capital expects Net casinos to take in $ 2.2 billion in bets this year , compared to last year 's $ 1.1 billion .
And even though the number of truly distinct gaming sites may be smaller than Websense 's tally , Sinclair says his staff struggles mightily to keep tabs on the industry 's swelling ranks .
" It 's a monumental task , " he said .




Cracker Hits Western Union Site

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Computer crackers broke into Western Union 's website servers late last week and grabbed the credit and debit card numbers of 15,700 customers who had transferred funds via Western Union 's website .
Western Union discovered that the site had been cracked late on Friday .
The company began to contact customers over the weekend , by phone and email .
Visa and MasterCard were also alerted to the problem so that the affected accounts could be monitored for fraudulent use , said Western Union spokesman Peter Ziverts .
" I got an email from them early Sunday telling me there had been a security problem and my personal information may have been stolen , " said one Western Union customer who asked that his name not be used . "
They suggested I contact my card issuer and cancel my account . "
" I was staggered that a website that deals specifically with financial transactions could be ripped open like this .
The idea of someone having free reign with debit card number for a day or so really frightened and angered me .
my
...
Luckily nothing has happened ... so far . "
According to a hacker and security specialist who goes by the name RadWork , Western Union may have opened the hole in its site during routine maintenance .
" There 's always a question during incidents like this , where people climb in through what could be called a small window of opportunity , whether there was a little help from someone inside the company , " said RadWork .
" But currently , the gossip in the underground security circles is that the site was adequately protected on a normal basis , but they left that window open while they were doing some sort of server work .
And the site was being sort of half-assed monitored by some folks who just happened to be there when the hole opened up , so they scampered in and grabbed the data . "
Network security consultant Dan Adams said that the security breach seems to be a case of human error .
" People get complacent and figure that it 's not a big deal to drop the shields for an hour or so , during what they figure is a quiet time of the day , Adams said . "
But when you 've got the world connected to your computer there is no such thing as quiet time .
The Internet never sleeps . "
RadWork said that it is his understanding that the crackers did n't intend to use the credit and debit card numbers they grabbed .
" From what I hear they just did it to prove they could .
And they took the numbers as a sort of trophy or souvenir . "
He also stresses no one has owned up to the crack .
" No one is talking credit for it , so I 'm assuming it was n't planned , " Radwork said . "
Just bad luck for Western Union and I guess you could say good luck for whoever happened to be lurking around and got into the site . "
" Good luck for the customers too , that it was n't someone who had a hankering to go to Bali or something .
Looks to me like those numbers that were nabbed were usable for awhile , " RadWork .
Western Union launched its Web money-transfer service in June .
According to the company only customers who transferred money at Western Union 's website were affected .
The company stressed that money transfers that were carried out over the phone , in western Union centers , and at Western Union 's MoneyZap were not affected .
The Western Union website is currently offline and displays the message : " Our website is currently out of service .
We apologize for any inconvenience . "
The website is not expected to be back in service until mid-week .
Customers can call 1-800-228-6530 for more information .




Wanted : Contents of Your Brain

Chris McKinstry does n't just want to pick your brain .
He wants to harvest it .
With the facts he finds inside you , McKinstry will produce the " ultimate average person . "
And then he 'll rent out this fellow -- to do your thinking for you .
If all this sounds more like science fiction than science fact , it is n't .
McKinstry , a computer scientist and an artificial intelligence expert , has embarked on a groundbreaking artificial intelligence project that aims to leverage the mind power of millions of Web surfers to teach a computer to approximate human thought .
The computer is called GAC , which stands for General Artificial Consciousness .
McKinstry 's aim is no less than to create an artificially conscious being -- a computer that can independently think human thoughts .
GAC , went online a month ago at McKinstry 's Mindpixel Digital Mind Modeling Project website and is just an infant .
pronounced " Jack "
But the computer will learn to act human in the same manner that a human baby learns , McKinstry said , by examining the world around it .
GAC 's world is the World Wide Web .
The more people who talk to the baby at his website , the faster GAC will learn about the world , and the sooner he 'll be able to achieve consciousness .
In other words , GAC needs you .
Or , more accurately , he needs your " mindpixels . "
McKinstry coined the term to describe what he calls the " minimum intelligent signal " of the human mind .
Basically , a mindpixel is a true-false statement that will be answered the same way by all human beings .
The sky is blue is an example of a basic mindpixel , as most people will respond to the statement affirmatively .
But mindpixels need not necessarily be so general , McKinstry said .
Indeed , for GAC to act truly human , it needs to know everything the average human being knows , and these facts are generally more specific than the color of the sky .
Some other examples of mindpixels include :
Cows are milk-producing animals . TRUE .
Linux is a computer operating system . TRUE .
Britney Spears is known to be an expert on semiconductor physics . FALSE .
McKinstry wants real human beings to go to GAC 's site and enter in any mindpixels they can think of .
Visitors to the site are also asked to answer " true " or " false " to mindpixels that others have entered into the system .
In this fashion , McKinstry said , GAC learns both the basic questions necessary to human existence , and the consensus answers to those questions .
More simply , GAC learns about the world .
But where , in this soup of true and false statements , will we find GAC 's humanity ?




Oz : Let the Communications Begin

SYDNEY , Australia -- The fiber has been laid , new mobile base stations are in place , and one of the world 's most sophisticated telecommunications system has been tested like a top athlete .
With less than a month to go before the Games begin on Sept. 15 , Australia 's telecommunication giant Telstra Corp. said it 's ready for the Sydney 2000 Summer Olympics .
In fact , they say they 've been ready for awhile .
But it 's also crossing its fingers -- mightily .
" We think we 've planned for everything , but we can never be sure , " said David Conolly , manager of technology and networks for Telstra 's Olympic unit .
" What I can say is that Homebush Bay is virtually afloat on a sea of glass . "
Homebush Bay is a broad geographic moniker applied to the sprawling , spanking new sporting facilities built for the Olympics west of downtown on a crusty , former industrial inlet of Sydney Harbor .
The centerpiece is the 110,000-seat Stadium Australia .
Unlike the Atlanta Olympics , where telecommunications responsibilities were split between several carriers and companies , Telstra is the overall provider of official communications for the Games .
That includes radio , fixed-line telephony , broadcast television , and international phone links .
It means Telstra 's got no one to share the blame if something -- anything -- goes wrong .
Telstra 's solution ?
It has wired the Olympic facilities tighter than a spider would wrap a fly , shoving fiber through just about every trans-urban orifice it could find with an inch to spare .
Telstra 's been building the system since 1997 , and the lion 's share of the capacity has been operational over the past year .
That has allowed Telstra to conduct real-world shakedowns over the last year during Olympics test events .
At this point , the system has more redundancy than a moon mission .
To give an example , rather than multiplexing data and television signals over large capacity cables to the central broadcasting and press center , Telstra has provided at least two dedicated fiber cables to each venue .
These cables will provide unhindered paths for data and video from each location , hopefully eliminating the Murphy 's Law potential for traffic jams on merged traffic from several locations .
All told , Telstra has laid 2,900 miles -- yes miles -- of fiber cable in and around Sydney and across the country to handle the voice , data , and video transmission load .
It has also installed enough capacity for 30,000 new phone lines and 280 video links .
At Stadium Australia , the mobile transmission system is the densest concentration of such capacity ever built in the world , easily 2 to 3 times anything built elsewhere , Conolly said .
Even if everyone in the stadium used their mobile phone call at the same time , and some people even used two at the same time , the system would not buckle , he said .




Hello AOL , I 'm Listening

In the mid 1960s , an artificial intelligence professor at MIT created a computer program whose " personality " was just human enough to make most people believe she was real .
Now a cognitive science student has unleashed the software on the unsuspecting denizens of AOL 's Instant Messenger service , and amazingly , she 's fooling them again .
" A lot of people figured out pretty quickly that this was n't the conversation they were expecting to have , " said Kevin Fox , who two weeks ago rigged up a version of Joseph Weizenbaum 's Eliza dubbed AOLiza and watched with growing fascination as it conversed with about 30 different -- and often hopelessly confused -- people on AIM .
" A lot left thinking they had a conversation with a real person , " said Fox , a 27-year-old undergraduate at the University of California at Berkeley . "
Nobody thinks it 's an AI because they 're not even thinking about it . "
Named Eliza after playwright George Bernard Shaw 's Eliza Doolittle , Weizenbaum 's program emulated a touchy-feely psychologist who asked a lot of questions .
Communicating via computer terminal , subjects in the '60s typed in their hopes and fears and the machine , exuding empathy , responded in well-formed sentences with statements like , " Do you dream often ? " or " Does this topic make you feel angry ? "
By today 's standards , Eliza is very simple .
Although it was programmed to behave like a non-directional , Rogerian psychotherapist , it knew nothing of psychoanalysis or the human condition .
Instead , Eliza relied on a library of stock responses and the ability to find keywords like " dream , " " sad , " " happy , " and people 's names , which it incorporated into its replies .
Despite its simplicity , Eliza created the powerful illusion of interacting with another intelligent being .
" People became convinced they were talking to a real psychologist and refused to believe it was , in fact , a machine , " Weizenbaum said .
Even its drawbacks worked to its advantage : Eliza was so slow , it seemed to be thinking about its replies .
" Eliza works because it is , in effect , a mirror of the person talking to it , " Weizenbaum said from Berlin , where he now lives . "
That was the trick . "
Weizenbaum said he was n't aware of any effort comparable to that of Fox , who seems to be seeing similar reactions among AOL users and has posted hilarious transcripts of AOLiza 's bizarre , rambling , and near-nonsensical conversations to his website .
" It 's stupid , but it shows a computer can engage in human-like interaction , " Fox said .
Initially , the unwitting subjects of Fox 's informal Turing Test -- a thought experiment devised by AI pioneer Alan Turing to determine if a machine is truly intelligent -- thought they were talking to a friend or relative .
But although only a couple of people eventually realized they were talking to a chatty robot , most knew something was very amiss .
Fox said he was amazed that many of the exchanges lasted for more than an hour -- the longest for an hour and a half .
The unique properties of instant messaging may have helped AOLiza fool people , Fox said .
" Instant messaging is so free form , so stream-of-consciousness , people will tolerate a very high level of inanity and ambiguity , " Fox said .
Instant messaging also follows a form of telephone etiquette that forbids people from signing off until both say goodbye .
" AOLiza never says goodbye , " Fox said . "
It responds to everything that 's said .
Conversations stretch on forever . "




Jasperon : Site to Die For

The traditional American reluctance to discuss the care of the dying is alive and well , according to the creators of a website intended to get them to do just that .
Jasperon.com , which went online earlier this week , exists to help both the doomed and their loved ones prepare for the inevitable , according to Robert Caione , CEO of the Connecticut-based site .
Caione , a former health insurance executive , started working on Jasperon.com in April , hoping to close gaps in communication over pain management and other end-of-life issues .
" Most times , there has been no discussion either with a patient 's physician or their families , and the results can be horrible , " Caione said .
The umbrella term for end-of-life care , " advanced directives , " includes a wide variety of personalized do 's and don'ts : from drawing up a will and assigning power of attorney to medical issues surrounding feeding tubes , pain medications , or experimental medications .
" A cancer patient could say , ' When I get to this point , I do n't want any further treatment , ' " Caione said . "
They can put it in a doctor 's order .
Then there 's a system in place . "
Perhaps the most excruciating part of any advanced directive is the DNR , or " do not resuscitate , " order that serves as a legal mandate to all nurses , doctors , and emergency medical technicians in the event a patient stops breathing .
Understandably , the subject remains the " elephant in the living room " for most families , in spite of an aging population , according to Sally Hurme , program consultant and attorney with the American Association of Retired Persons .
" I appreciate the issue that obviously is trying to be addressed , " she said . "
A health-care provider can n't follow your wishes if they do n't know what your wishes are . "
However , the patient 's privacy must be safeguarded , something Caione said his site goes to great lengths to do .
" Once it 's in the system , it 's private and confidential , " he said . "
That 's as far as it goes . "
Designated family members and medical personnel are allowed sole access , Caione said .
Similar living-will and " DNR " registries have failed to take off in the past , but the interactive nature of Jasperon.com could give it an edge , according to Charles Sabatino , an attorney for the American Bar Association 's Commission on Legal Problems of the Elderly .
" Hospitals and other institutions have not been quick to use these because they would rather deal with the patients ' relatives , " he said .
" Its interactive nature is good : Getting people to talk about caregiving and legal issues is its biggest plus , " Caione said . "
People might fill out a living will and think they 've done the whole job , but the documents without the discussion do n't do a lot of good . "
It 's that increased communication level that will bring about more personal decision making , said an enthusiastic Caione .
Despite faster technology , Hurme said there remains an underlying problem : " How does the hospital know to look at the website ? "
Caione 's reply : Jasperon.com is working on establishing hospital partnerships .
Hurme suggested that family members consider confiding in someone they trust about to what an elderly or sick family member 's advanced directives are , and where they are stored .
" Scatter them to all the people who might be called upon to make a decision " in the event of an emergency , she said .
" You might not want to give the advanced directives to all these people , but you can let them know they exist and where . "




Farmers Given Food for Thought

A small organization in the southwestern United States is not only trying to preserve traditional farming methods , but hopes to preserve a culture in the process .
Native Seed Search of Tucson , Arizona wants to conserve and disseminate crops used by the indigenous people of the Southwest , mainly American Indians .
They fear that genetically modified crops could threaten their efforts .
" The more prevalent genetically modified crops are , the more interesting they will become to farmers , " said Suzanne Nelson , director of conservation at Native Seed Search . "
If their neighbor gets three times the yield , farmers will be very interested in improvement to what they could produce . "
So why would such a bountiful yield be bad ?
Native Seed Search members worry that the yield would be composed of a homogenous crop , leaving the multifarious plants of the American Indian culture to fade into obscurity .
Crops have a cultural component , Nelson said .
The crops of any region evolve because of the people living there .
And for certain cultures , including those of American Indians , the world is built around the cultivation of crops .
" There are ceremonial aspects to different crops , " Nelson said . "
Hopis use lima bean sprouts in religious ceremonies .
What if they did n't have it anymore ? "
The disappearance of crop species could have a trickledown effect as well , Nelson said .
If the crops disappear , the words for them will disappear as well .
" Language is central to culture , " she said . "
If words are no longer used , you 've lost a piece of your history . "
But Monsanto , which makes genetically modified crops , says that contrary to popular belief , genetically modified does not automatically mean less diversity .
" There are 1,000 varieties of soybeans that contain our roundup ready gene , for example , " said Monsanto spokesman Gary Barton . "
Critics would want you to think they 're all the same .
But the farmer has more choice than he knows what to do with . "
Still , that does n't address more obscure strains of squash , lima beans , corn , and the like that Native Seed Search wants to conserve .
Monsanto mostly sells its technology to seed companies catering to large farms , not smaller subsistence farmers .




Sperm : The New Digital Art

BERLIN -- Ars Electronica , the venerable digital arts festival held each September in Linz , Austria , always makes a splash .
And this year is no exception .
Take sperm-racing , for example , which fits perfectly with this year 's theme : sex .
" NEXT SEX : Sex in the Age of Its Procreative Superfluousness , " which begins Saturday , picks up pretty much where last year 's ground-breaking " Life Sciences " festival left off .
" Sperm-racing " may sound like a mere gag , but the Ars Electronica folks are serious about their fun , and have fun in their seriousness .
So , yes sirree , the little critters will be a-wrigglin ' and a-racin ' .
And anyone who shows up in the main square in Linz next week will be able to make his own , uh , contribution to the event .
" There is a big container in the main square of the city , in a public space where everyone can go , " said Gerfried Stocker , the festival 's director . "
It 's called the CASA , Computer Assisted Sperm Analyzer , and with this thing you can measure or determine the quality of sperm , the density , the mobility , the speed , the pH value , and this kind of thing . "
See , we told you they were serious .
" We measure the speed , and make your ranking with all the people .
The women can bet on their favorites , " Stocker said in a telephone interview . "
You fill out a form along with your donation .
Muscles ?
Education ?
What car you drive ? "
If fast cars substitute for sexual performance , the automobile information is , in fact , an important piece of information for the contest , Stocker said .
" It 's meant rather as a funny and ironic project , of course , " he said . "
By looking at these questionnaires , the women can say who they think is the sexually most powerful male , who has the fastest sperm , and every evening we have the sperm race .
" The person who wins can stay anonymous , or maybe reveal himself and become the big darling of everyone here . "
Sure makes 200-meter dash seem pathetic by comparison , now does n't it ?
But Stocker insists there is a serious aspect to the Sperm Olympics .
" It 's really about the whole discussion about how the quality of sperm in the Western world is constantly reducing , " Stocker said . "
This is very often used as an argument by very right-wing and racist people .
If you 're strong and do a lot of sports , it does n't mean you have the better sperm .
There is also no correlation with race or nationality .
Still , there is this very stereotypical picture of all this . "
And of course , there are souvenirs .
Not the magazines and videos available in a booth set up for potential sample-producers .
No , those stay .
The souvenirs are photographs .
" You can get nice photos of your sperm racing , blown up a thousand times , " Stocker said .
Last year 's focus on life sciences generated a lively debate , including detailed treatment of such topics as designer babies .
This year 's festival will take that inquiry further , and while next year 's theme is not yet decided , chances are it will continue to build on the topic of sex .




Burning Man a Test for Tech Art

BLACK ROCK CITY , Nevada -- Win Burleson squints through a swirling Nevada dust storm and rubs grit from his laptop screen for the third time in the last minute .
" Is the network up yet ? " he asks a bedraggled assortment of MIT geeks hunched over a grimy tangle of cables , video projectors , and a smoldering soldering iron .
Burleson and his colleagues are crafting a project that 's an equal blend of art , technology , and -- if the high winds here at the Burning Man festival continue -- an endurance test of technology against the elements .
They plan to float up to three 16-foot , latex balloons above the dry lake bed and dangle thumb-sized infrared cameras underneath .
Those and other wireless cameras held by participants roaming the counterculture event will beam images to four huge screens looming surrealistically in a cube at the north edge of this temporary city .
" We 're going to accumulate as many image sources as possible , " says Ted Selker , a 43-year old associate professor at MIT 's Media Lab and Burning Man regular who is organizing the project .
Selker runs the Media Lab 's Context Aware Computing group , which is working on creating computers built into objects such as floors , beds , and necklaces that know what 's happening in the world around them .
A context-aware bed , for instance , would gradually conform itself to its owner 's music , lighting , and bedtime preferences .
But the rarefied atmosphere of Cambridge , Massachusetts is worlds away from the severe weather of Nevada 's Black Rock Desert , where Selker and his graduate students have spent this week struggling with generator problems , a flaky Internet connection , and repeated interruptions by curious passers-by .
True to the share-freely spirit of Burning Man , however , some gawkers quickly turned into helpers : A former Internet CEO donated an Ethernet patch cable , a satellite engineer volunteered to set up the network , and a video-game programmer offered to write a Java program to display GPS signals on one of the projection screens .
The system works this way : One balloon transmits an infrared video feed , allowing nighttime recording , while another hoists a tiny Sony Vaio laptop with a built-in camera that transmits images through an 802.11 wireless network .
Sekler , a former IBM fellow who invented the finger-pointing device used in Thinkpad laptops , says he has n't decided what video feeds to put up on his screens , and how to alter them using image-manipulating software .
" I think they 're going to be playa-related , " he says , referring to the desert expanse on which Burning Man attendees construct their weeklong city each year . "
If we were flashing that stuff up there not as a slide show but as a kind of continuum . "
we should do it
Because Black Rock City is miles from electrical power and the glare of a metropolis , creative lighting displays have become a commonplace art form here .
On Thursday evening , some participants danced between an overhead projector and a large white screen .
Most festival attendees have attached colored lights to their clothing -- or their nude bodies -- instead of using flashlights at night .
Because of high winds , the MIT team ultimately was not able to complete their four-sided structure .
Instead they beamed a movie of last year 's Burning Man ceremony on two of the sides .




Cancer Drug Results Falsified

BIRMINGHAM , Alabama -- A husband and wife involved in testing a cancer drug have been sentenced to prison for falsifying results that helped the drug win federal approval .
Harry W. Snyder was sentenced Thursday in federal court to three years in prison and his wife , Renee Peugeot , to two-and-a-half years for conspiracy , mail fraud and making false statements to the Food and Drug Administration .
They were also ordered to make restitution of $ 26,000 to the FDA .
A jury in March found that the couple falsified data from clinical trials conducted between 1994 and 1995 on BCX-34 , an experimental drug to treat psoriasis and skin cancer .
Prosecutors said the two planned to cash in when the company 's stock prices rose on news of the drug 's effectiveness .
Snyder , a former BioCryst Pharmaceuticals Inc. vice president , oversaw clinical development .
Peugeot was a nurse who helped run the drug trials .
BioCryst reported the irregularities to the FDA in 1995 and admitted that earlier test results were misleading .
At the time the Snyders were indicted , BioCryst said authorities made assurances that neither the company nor any other employee would be targeted in the investigation .
The judge allowed the pair , now Texas residents , to remain out on bond pending appeal .




A Window on Digital TV

Microsoft confirmed Wednesday that it was weaving digital television software into the next version of the group 's flagship Windows operating system .
But Microsoft denied such a move would spell the end of the set-top box and said there would be room for both the personal computer and set-top box to deliver digital television for the foreseeable future .
" We are taking software components from the Microsoft TV platform and integrating them into the next version of Windows , " said Ed Graczyk , Microsoft TV 's marketing director .
" But this is not at all about giving up on set-top boxes as a delivery vehicle and they will remain the mainstream device controlling television for a long time to come . "
Microsoft TV was launched last year to develop interactive software for set-top-boxes for digital television operators .
Microsoft did this after struggling to break into the digital entertainment market with its Windows CE operating system .
The software group , which celebrated its 25th birthday this week , plans to release " Whistler , " the next version of its Windows OS , in the second half of next year .
" We 've been working with the hardware industry on this for a long time and plan to demonstrate it for the first time at the International Broadcasting Convention on Friday , " Graczyk said .
in Amsterdam
While viewing television on the PC has been possible for some time , Graczyk said integration has been a problem .
" All we 've done is take the integration software and built it in as a base functionality of Windows so that the hardware manufacturers do n't have to worry about that level of integration , " he said .
Microsoft TV is developing software for a handful of customers in Europe and North America .
But it warned last month it would not be ready for the initial roll-out of one of its key clients , Europe 's largest cable operator , UPC .
Graczyk reiterated that Microsoft TV was confident it could meet the deadline for the second phase of UPC 's roll-out in the first quarter next year .
But in the meantime , UPC has said it will test software from Open TV and Liberate , a couple of Microsoft competitors , as well as proprietary software developed by AtHome Corporation .




Measuring the Cell Phone Risk

In a move to assuage fears that cell phone use can cause brain cancer , three phone manufacturers are trying to create a standard to measure radiation emissions .
Consumers may be misled to believe that lower specific absorption rates mean less risk to potential hazards , say officials at Motorola , Nokia , and Ericsson .
SAR
MOT
NOK
ERICY
They are concerned that new guidelines requiring the labeling of SAR levels on phone packaging will lead consumers to believe that lower levels equal lower risk .
" It 's a very complicated matter so it needs a little more explaining , " said Nokia spokeswoman Virve Virtanen . "
What kind of radiation are we talking about ?
Electromagnetic fields surround us everywhere .
Every piece of electrical equipment has electromagnetic radiation . "
Their argument essentially is that raw SAR numbers on the side of the package do n't tell the full story .
" We are figuring out a way , which is global-based , to provide this information in context , " said Norm Sandler , Motorola 's director of global strategic issues .
Though Ericsson , for example , insists on its website that the amount of radiation emitted by its products is " approximately one-fiftieth the level of exposure that would have a minimal effect on health , " consumers are n't so sure .
Starting on August 1 , the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association , a trade group , began requiring U.S. cell phone manufacturers to publish the SAR levels of their products .
While there are n't penalties for not complying , companies receive CTIA certification when they do .
Last month a Maryland neurologist with a brain tumor filed an $ 800 million lawsuit against CTIA , Motorola , Verizon Communications , Bell Atlantic Corp. , Bell Atlantic Mobile , and SBC Communications claiming the companies never made the public aware that cell phones emit harmful radiation .
- - -
Adobe goes wireless : Software developer Adobe said it would extend the Web design capabilities of its GoLive 5.0 software to support the WAP and i-mode platforms .
ADBE
wireless application protocol
Users with i-mode phones -- there are 10 million subscribers in Japan -- as well as WAP users can now create their own WAP and i-mode sites by downloading Adobe 's software .




Biz : The Bot That Will n't Shut Up

AOLiza is n't the only chatbot lurking on America Online 's instant messaging service .
Another " conversation simulator " called BizzaroKiehl , or Biz for short , is gaining a following among AIM users , thanks to the utterly unpredictable things it says .
Run by Tom Kiehl , a computer scientist at General Electric 's R&D lab in upstate New York , Biz converses with up 30 people at a time while it 's logged on .
" When he 's running reliably , people talk with him well into the night , " Kiehl said . "
People come back time after time just to see what random stuff he 'll say next , or to teach him some ' useful ' information about someone else 's sex life or whatever .
People are constantly referring him to friends , and talking to him when they are lonely or bored at work . "
Unlike Kevin Fox 's AOLiza , Biz is n't based on a handful of pre-programmed phrases .
Biz has the ability to learn from its conversations and remembers everything it is told -- hence the desire to teach it about other 's sex lives .
The embarrassing details may emerge in subsequent conversations .
The software looks for keywords in people 's utterances , and depending on the context , regurgitates the sentence or fragments of a sentence , it deems appropriate .
Sometimes the software 's response is dead on , giving the illusion it is intelligent .
But more frequently , the result is garbled nonsense .
Take this exchange from earlier this week :
AIM user : Is your name Chuck ?
BizzaroKiehl : My name is Dan , and my English does n't need as much as the boughs bend .
And I betcha know Humpty 's nose if large .
That 's right , I 'm not interested in your name Chuck .
" While Biz is not as convincingly human , it is definitely more creative and more entertaining to talk to , " Kiehl said . "
as AOLiza
You never know what he 's going to say . "
Biz is based on Jason Hutchens ' MegaHal , the 1998 runner-up in the Loebner Prize , a version of the Turing Test that every year attempts to find the most convincingly " human , " chattering robot .
Available as a free download , Hutchen 's MegaHal was converted by Kiehl and some friends to Java and hooked up to AIM at the beginning of July .
Hutchens said that since he released MegaHal under the GNU public license , it has been downloaded thousands of times .
It is also included in every copy of Debian 's distribution of Linux , and has been converted to the Mac , BeOS , and Amiga .
Hutchens said that in the last six months , he 's received a lot of email from people who tell him about their adventures connecting MegaHal to ICQ , MUDs , and even Usenet .
" All sorts of weird things have been done with MegaHal , " Hutchens said . "
People send it a week 's worth of postings from a Usenet newsgroup , get it to generate something random and post it back to the newsgroup .
" It usually has some degree of relevance but is garbled in a weird way , " he said . "
They get a payoff when someone falls for it and thinks it 's a real person . "




Emulex Victims : Who Can We Sue ?

With the manhunt for the perpetrator of the Emulex fraud apparently over , investors burned by the company 's $ 2 billion post-fraud swing are now hunting for someone , anyone , to sue for legal damages .
Two lawsuits have already been filed , one against Internet Wire , which originally distributed the bogus press release , and one against both Internet Wire and Bloomberg , the financial news service that sent out a story based on the press release .
Lawyers say it 's only a matter of time before scores of individual stockbrokers get sued , too .
And let 's not forget Nasdaq , which some have criticized for the way it handled the trading halt in Emulex shares .
And Emulex itself might even be sued for failing to ensure that its correspondence with Internet Wire could n't be effectively aped , lawyers said .
EMLX
Still , despite the big stock losses and investors ' understandably hard feelings , legal experts say there 's not much chance that any of the aforementioned parties will be held legally liable for any part of the Emulex fiasco .
" For Internet Wire and Bloomberg , there 's no legal duty to make sure that what they print is accurate , unless they have some clear reason to know it 's not accurate , " said Jason Epstein , an Internet lawyer with the Washington , D.C. , law firm Baker Donelson Bearman & Caldwell .
Publishers of all stripes -- print , wire , or Internet -- are n't held legally liable for unwittingly printing inaccuracies , because if they were , they 'd be reluctant to publish anything at all and free speech would suffer .
If publishers knowingly print false information , they can be held liable , but in the Emulex case , Internet Wire and Bloomberg both apparently believed the information to be true when they published it .
Even if publishers were n't protected by reams of First Amendment-related case law , Emulex investors would have a very difficult time proving that Internet Wire or Bloomberg have any legal fiduciary duty to investors , lawyers said .
There 's no contract between a news service and its readers that guarantees sound financial information .
In a famous case in the 1980's , the Wall Street Journal was sued for publishing wrong information about bond prices .
The plaintiffs , who apparently lost money as a result of the bad info , also lost their suit .
Upshot : " Any suit against will be a very weak suit , " said Geoffrey Stewart , a securities lawyer with Jones Day Reavis & Pogue in Washington , D.C.
Internet Wire and Bloomberg
Brokers that advised clients to sell based on the Bloomberg report probably will n't be called to account either , lawyers said .
Although brokers , unlike news services , clearly have a legal duty to their clients , investors would be hard-pressed to prove that their brokers acted negligently in the Emulex case .
" If the broker 's relying on the normal , trusted information service he uses , you can n't fault him , " said Stewart .
In the age of instant news dissemination and instant market reaction , a broker who waits for a company to verify news published by trusted source before advising a client would normally lose his client a lot of money .
In the 99.99 percent of cases where news is n't a hoax , the broker would be negligent not to act quickly .




The Michelangelo of Lego

There are a lot of unusual jobs , but very few people put bread on the table by sculpting Lego bricks .
But thanks to the enduring lure of the brightly colored building blocks , especially among the technology crowd , Eric Harshbarger is beginning to carve out a niche as a professional Lego artist .
Lego are n't just for kids .
The Lego Users Group Network , the largest community of adult Lego builders on the Net , has about 10,000 members worldwide and receives 100,000 visitors to the site every year .
Lugnet has started 700 newsgroups devoted to the art and science of Lego building .
Ostensibly , that bodes well for Harshbarger 's Lego artistry .
" My hobby of making Lego sculptures is turning into a source of part-time income , " said the 29-year native of Auburn , Alabama , who still makes most of his revenue from contract programming . "
Maybe one day it will make me more money than coding . "
Harshbarger is on his way .
Since going through his " Lego renaissance " last summer -- the period when Legophiles rediscover their childhood passion -- he has sold dozens of large-scale sculptures .
His latest creation is a 35,000-piece Lego desk for a Seattle e-commerce company , which wanted the desk to lure a new employee it was keen to hire .
The desk was even written into the worker 's employment contract , Harshbarger said .
" They were frantic , " Harshbarger said . "
After seven or eight months they had n't found anyone to build it .
Evidently , it was n't as easy to find someone as they had hoped . "
Declining to provide details about the company or the employee , Harshbarger said the employee was always being teased at his previous job for his ever-overflowing inbox .
He would jokingly retort that he could make a bigger inbox if he had a desk made of Lego .
But Harshbarger said he suspects the employee wanted a desk he could build models on .
" I offered to make the desktop smooth , so he could write on it , " Harshbarger said . "
But he wanted the bumps left exposed . "
In the three months it took to make , Harshbarger built a full-sized prototype , finalized the design with the company , and then disassembled it and rebuilt it with glue .
" I took it apart one piece at a time and glued it back together one piece at a time , " he said . "
All 35,000 pieces . "
The desk cost $ 2,000 in bricks alone , though Harshbarger said he charged the company considerably more to make it .
It weighs 125 pounds and was shipped to Seattle this week at a cost of $ 800 .
" Let 's hope it arrives in one piece , " Harshbarger said .
While the desk is his biggest commission , Harshbarger 's most popular design is a model of the Linux Penguin .
He 's sold about half a dozen , though he says he would have sold more if not for the price .
" People think it 's going to be $ 50 , not $ 500 , " he said . "
They do n't understand how much time and energy goes into these things . "
Harshbarger has built sculptures of Alice in Wonderland , R2D2 , the Earth , and seven-foot grandfather clocks .
The clocks are made entirely of Lego , including the time-keeping mechanism .
With about 5,000 pieces , they cost between $ 2,000 to $ 2,500 .
" It 's my favorite , " he said . "
Technically and mechanically it 's quite an achievement . "
Harshbarger , who is single , said he is running out of room at his house for his sculptures .




Tech Workers ' Burn ' Out of Town

The automated out-of-office replies have been written .
The Palm VIIs are tucked neatly in their cradles .
Cellphones ?
Who needs them ?
An estimated 28,000 new media bohemians and their hairdressers have descended on Burning Man 's playa in the Black Rock Desert of Nevada , leaving their dot-com jobs on autopilot until the last glowing cinder turns to ash .
" Our entire office will be shutting down for Burning Man as of Wednesday , " said Dawn Andreas , a producer for the six-person S.F. Orange Design Inc. "
We made this decision months ago and have planned all our jobs around being gone during this week . "
While most do n't close up shop completely , few Bay Area high-tech companies are left untouched by the week-long festival , now in its 14th year .
It 's not just wage-slaves who are attending .
A number of CEOs are expected , including Webby Awards founder Tiffany Shlain , Google creators Sergey Brin and Larry Page , and Brian Behlendorf of Organic , a company with roots in the Bay Area rave scene .
" Organic basically shuts down .
I 've never seen anything like it .
About a week beforehand , the mental exodus starts , " recalled a former staff member at the Web development agency , who requested anonymity . "
People spamming to the junk list so everyone knows where to find them in their camps .
...
The elaborate planning far surpasses any semblance of production work I witnessed at any time while working there last year . "
One-third of Get-Topica 's 100-person staff , including its P.R. director , has already set up camp in Nevada .
Staffers at Productopia were treated to the sight of their product management director struggling to set up her tent in the office .
" She 's never camped before , " Productopia P.R .
Manager Melissa Sheridan explained .
" We have five or six people out of 150 who went to Burning Man , " Listen.com spokesman Sean Garrett said . "
It 's impacting us because we do n't have a copy editor for this week , but I do n't suppose that 's any different from any random vacation . "
Small companies will obviously be hit harder than large ones , and certain departments are certainly more susceptible to Burning Man absences . "
I would think that marketing types would be less likely to attend Burning Man .
I hope so , " said Gina Sanfilippo , a LAN administrator with TechTV , who is attending for the second time .
But while dot-com absences number in the thousands this week , rumors of a city-wide industry brownout -- as reported this week in the San Francisco Examiner and USA Today -- have been greatly exaggerated .
" Of course , a number of employees are attending .
By no means does that stop Organic 's work or work week or anything like that , " Organic 's Laura Uribarri said .
" It 's business as usual here at Topica , " added an employee there , who asked not to be named .
The Examiner reported that some departments at Critical Path all but shut down for the festival . "
That 's totally untrue , " said Sharon Wienbar , the global messaging company 's vice president of marketing .
Julie Brodeur , who works in Critical Path 's technical publications department , said she only knew of one person in her immediate group who was going . "
We are n't all Playa-cyber-hippies , " she quipped .
Companies finding themselves short on employees this week should weigh the costs and benefits before cracking down on Burning Man absences , advises Bruce Tulgan , a management consultant and author of the book Managing Generation X.
" In an economy where employers are short-staffed and scrambling to hire enough people to get all the work done , this plays in two ways , " he said . "
On the one hand , an employer who has good people and they want to take a week off to go to this festival does n't want to make this a deal-breaker .
On the other hand , it 's frustrating and difficult to have a number of people out at a time . "
Tulgan also cautions that experiences shared between colleagues at Burning Man could create interoffice tension later on . "
On the one hand you could say , this would be an outside-the-box corporate culture experience , " he says . "
But you have to be careful about crossing the line .
When you go back to work together , have you shared an experience that makes it uncomfortable to go back ? "




The Future of File Trading

Sharing files might be all the rage on the Internet , but creating a viable business model around file trading applications has proven to be very difficult .
On Monday , Scour Inc. laid off 52 of its 70 employees after failing to obtain additional financing , which it sorely needs as it tries to fend off legal challenges from both the recording and motion picture industries .
Dan Rodrigues , Scour 's president , tried to sound upbeat .
" We remain hopeful that our dispute will come out the same way that the original David and Goliath battle did , " Rodrigues said in a statement .
The Scour website offers a multimedia search engine along with its Scour Exchange file trading application that allows users who download the program to trade files with others on the network .
The Recording Industry Association of American and the Motion Picture Association of America filed a copyright infringement suit against Scour on July 20 .
Despite the suit , Rodrigues believed that neither of the major entertainment organizations had developed an antagonistic relationship with Scour .
" We have intentionally not created a high profile for ourselves and been antagonistic to the industries , " Rodrigues said in a interview with Wired in July . "
When we went to these companies , we told them they we wanted to be the technology solution for their concerns .
Right now , they prefer the litigation strategy , but I hope this is just part of the negotiation process . "
At present , the suit does n't appear to be a part of the negotiating process and the future of Scour remains very much in doubt .
But finding a way to capture even a portion of the 25 million registered Napster users is a compelling reason for companies to continue to search for viable file-trading business models , despite the specter of a lengthy , and expensive , court battle .
Even Intel has been linked with a new file-trading appilication called Aimster , which piggybacks on America Online 's Instant Messaging service .
INTC
AOL
The network has already attracted nearly a million AOL users since the program was launched Aug. 8 .
While efforts to establish viable and litigation-free companies in America have been largely unsuccessful , an Australian executive is working on a plan that he hopes will solve many of the inherent copyright issues that have plagued file trading applications .
Channeling advertising revenues to artists and musicians from free music search engines and download sites could help solve some of the copyright issues involved in online music file swapping , says an Australian CD retailing entrepreneur .
Rob Appel , founder and CEO of Sydney-based ChaosMusic , is doing just that .
Since early August , he has been setting aside 15 percent of gross advertising revenues from Chaos ' Freetracks music search engine for eventual distribution to artists whose music is downloaded .
" We need to shift the focus from control to commercializing what 's going on , " Appel says . "
The 15 percent we 've seen as just a kind of minimum benchmark to introduce the concept . "
At present , the kitty amounts to only several thousand dollars .
But with traffic on the retailer 's free music search engine growing at roughly 50 percent every month , the amounts set aside for artists could grow significantly over time , he says .
Right now , the money is being held in a trust account until a means of distributing it equitably is worked out .
For his part , Appel hopes the funds will be disbursed by an organization like the Australasian Performing Rights Association , Australia 's copyright collection agency .
Richard Mallett , APRA 's director of broadcast and online licensing , says he 's intrigued by Appel 's idea , particularly since it 's one of the few constructive compromises to surface since the Napster controversy entered the public consciousness .
" We 'd much prefer this sort of dialogue coming from those involved in swapping of online music , rather than people just saying ' we 're going to do this no matter what , and not pay anything to anybody , ' " Mallett said .
While Appel 's proposal is n't ideal , it at least recognizes that online exchanges of copyrighted music should not be free , Mallett said .
And 15 percent of something may be better than 100 percent of nothing , especially if it serves to bolster the principle of copyright in cyberspace , he added .
" If you devalue intellectual property online to where you do n't pay for it , it may be good for today 's generation , but in the end there 'll be no incentive to artists to create new music , " Mallett said . "
Future generations will have less and less to choose from . "
Appel 's proposal will be discussed later this month by the Australasian Mechanical Copyright Owners Society , the unit within APRA representing the specific interests of music publishers and writers in Australia and New Zealand .
Both Mallett and Appel acknowledge music file swapping is already so entrenched it will be hard to stop completely , so the issue now is living with the genie .
Given the rapid increase in online music swapping , Appel says new ideas are sorely needed .
" Artists who were energized by the Internet have become disillusioned , because they believe the Web has given them so little back after taking so much , " he said . "
Our hope now is to generate a business model on this new reality in which everyone can win . "
One high-profile backer is Microsoft Australia , which has kicked in several thousand dollars to help the plan get off the ground , said Frank Arrigo , Microsoft Australia 's business development manager for Windows Media Technologies .
" As best I can tell , this ChaosMusic plan is novel , " Arrigo said . "
I have n't seen anything like it done elsewhere . "
For its part , Microsoft has created a music file format called Windows Media Audio .
Embedded in the format is technology that could be used to attribute copyright monies more precisely to individual artists .
As such , any file swapping system that bolsters music copyright protection in cyberspace could benefit the WMA format and its chief backer , Microsoft .
Back out in file swapper land , Appel 's idea has sparked predictable controversy .
One poster on Freetracks ' own discussion board , identified only as " Starving Musician , " sees Appel 's plan as merely a convenient corporate subterfuge to muscle in on Napster 's turf .
" There is no way you can correctly distribute these royalties to the deserving artists from such a flimsy concept , " wrote Starving Musician . "
I really see Freetracks as only one step removed from Napster , ultimately ripping off us starving artists struggling to make a living . "
However , another poster , identified as " KZ5 " and claiming to be another Australian musician , was more upbeat .
" We are a small , independent band and it is very hard to compete with record companies ' promotion and advertising budgets , " KZ5 wrote . "
The Internet is giving bands like us some even ground .
Any advancements in the realm of creating royalties can only be a good thing .
Keep up the good work Chaos . "
Appel founded ChaosMusic in 1995 as an Australian online music retailer .
The company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange in December 1999 .
ASX:CHS
Brad King contributed to this report




Tech Sex Is Great (Ab)Normalizer

LINZ , Austria -- Not too many people , least of all scientists , would argue against the notion that science needs help from other quarters in understanding the sweeping cultural changes unfolding as science and technology become the great theme of 21st century life .
What the 21st annual Ars Electronica festival on the banks of the Danube River has dared to claim is that artists are at least as equipped as anyone else to offer science the help it so badly needs .
As the two-day Next Sex symposium wrapped up on Monday evening , this somewhat bold idea seemed more viable -- and more intriguing -- than ever .
The point may have been best made by a sociologist .
Joanne Finkelstein , an Australian , gave an intelligent , funny presentation Monday morning that proved unmistakably the limited efficacy of sociology in helping out on crucial and timely questions of the day .
Finkelstein , author of " Slaves of Chic " and " The Fashioned Self , " was not without insight , of course .
Discussing the dramatic increase in people having sexual experiences via the Internet , she noted : " Instances of technology providing substitutes for the real thing are too popular to be called substitutes .
They ARE the real thing . "
Hear , hear .
But Finkelsteins core message , delivered after a brief tour of the Kinsey Report , the Hite Report , and Foucault , was that even by studying great populations of people , sociology can not tell you much about the interior mysteries of the human sexual experience .
ha ha !
ha !
all hail !
Thanks for the honesty .
Artists , in contrast , seemed to have a lot to offer .
That was especially true of the appearance a day earlier of Natacha Merritt , who grew up in San Francisco and has become somewhat renowned for images she makes of herself that tend to draw strong reactions .
Merritt brings her digital camera into the bedroom in the most literal sense , and talked with such deadpan honesty about the experience , many in the crowd were taken aback .
What was clear was that her " Digital Diary " and her frank talk about her sexual appetites offered insights into a reality many or most in the post-industrial , tech-savvy world can understand , whether they want to admit it or not .
Sergio Messina , an engaging Italian electronic musician and journalist , gave a thorough presentation on the thriving sexual community online .




Mad Mac Users Target Jobs

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
A self-proclaimed " guerrilla group " of Mac users plans to disrupt the keynote speech of Apple CEO Steve Jobs at the Apple Expo in Paris later this month .
The protest is scheduled for Sept. 13 , the day Apple is slated to release the public beta of Mac OS X.
AAPL
According to an email credited to the " Expo Protest Team " that was sent to Wired News , the group will be griping about three key issues : Apple 's treatment of its users , the company 's legal threats against websites and people who release information about Apple products before a product 's official release , and Apple 's treatment of its European customers , particularly those in the Great Britain .
The email says that the planned protest will take the form of an " alternative " speech by team members that will be delivered " in the middle " of Job 's keynote speech .
According to an anonymous email sent by a person who claimed to be a member of the group , the protesters will " have a number of people planted in the audience , so that as one protesting speech-giver is ushered from the room , another will pop up to take his or her place , and so on .
" Every single member of the group will know the full text of the speech we want to deliver and we will have a sufficient number of people there to ensure that our message is heard , " the email warned .
Piers Brown-Hill , a London-based Apple IT supervisor , said he 's spoken with members of the group , who contacted him asking for support during the protest .
" They are upset about Apple 's threats to take legal action against ' gossip sites ' and are particularly upset over the cancellation of U.K.-based expos and events , " Brown-Hill said .
" They feel that the U.K. event was cancelled in favor of holding an event in Paris , which has a small number of Mac users compared to the U.K. community .
And they are also upset the lack of a U.K.-specific version of the Mac operating system , " Brown-Hill said .
over
John Davies , a computer repair technician in London who plans to attend the Paris Expo , believes that many would welcome an " English , not American " version of the Mac operating system , and agreed that Apple has been " rather snarky " with its users lately .
But he does n't support the protest .
" There are better ways to handle this , " Davies said . "
Interrupting Jobs ' speech will just get people annoyed at the protesters .
Jobs gives brilliant speeches , and the protesters may be clubbed like baby seals if they dare to interrupt his spiel . "
But it seems that the group is particularly set upon interrupting Jobs ' keynote .
The text of the group 's email accused Apple -- and Jobs in particular -- of growing " arrogant " and not recognizing the loyalty of the users who " stuck with the company during the dark years . "
" Apple needs to realize it is in a unique position within the computer market , in as much as it has fans as well as customers , " the email said . "
Apple needs to adapt the way it deals with these people and find some other way of dealing with them other than sending in the lawyers . "
The group promises a peaceful protest , with " no throwing of rotten apples . "




MP3.Com Must Pay the Piper

NEW YORK -- A federal judge ruled Wednesday that MP3.com willfully engaged in thousands of acts of copyright infringement when it created an 80,000-album , digital database that allowed users to stream music from its servers .
U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff said that MP3.com knowingly violated copyrights when it created its my.mp3.com service .
With damages to the company assessed at $ 25,000 per CD , MP3.com could be out by roughly $ 118 million .
Universal , the lone plaintiff remaining in the case , had submitted claims on 10,000 albums .
Nasdaq halted trading in MP3.com shares at 1:54 in advance of the court ruling .
MP3.com began trading again in the after hours market and promptly plunged 32.5 percent to an all-time low of $ 5.31 .
MPPP
Rakoff noted that while he could have awarded as much as $ 150,000 per CD , he chose to impose damages of a significantly smaller amount because MP3.com had acted " more responsibly than other Internet startups , " a likely reference to Napster , which also is fighting a copyright infringement lawsuit .
" The decision is n't shocking , " said Harold Shapiro , a copyright lawyer who has been following the case closely .
" And it will n't kill MP3.com , " said Shapiro , noting that the company recently set $ 150 million aside in order to pay the expected damages .
But Shapiro said it is absolutely crucial that MP3.com establishes a licensing agreement with Universal .
" Universal has a huge song catalog .
MP3.com can survive this judgment , but it can not survive a continued battle with Universal , " he said . "
They have to come to terms . "
Despite damages being less draconian than the $ 450 million that Universal 's lawyers urged the judge to award , MP3.com attorney Michael Rhodes said that the company would appeal the decision .
He said MP3.com simply " built technology that lets people listen to their own CD collections . "
A trial to determine the specific number of CDs that MP3.com made available to its users is set to begin Nov. 13 .
" We&rsquo;re obviously pleased with today&rsquo;s ruling , said Cary Sherman , senior vice president and general counsel of the Recording Industry Association of America . "
This should send a message that there are consequences when a business recklessly disregards the copyright law . "
MP3.com has challenged the validity of Universal 's hold on song copyrights .
Yet another trial will be held to determine exactly which copyrights Universal holds .
The outcome of Wednesday 's trial seemed decided a week ago , when Rakoff cut short MP3.com 's cross-examination of Seagram CEO Edgar Bronfman Jr.
Seagram is the parent company of Universal Music Group .
MP3.com 's defense hinged on the fact that Seagram refused to settle its copyright infringement suit so that the major label could put the music company out of business .
Rakoff determined that the motives of Bronfman and Seagram did not justify MP3.com 's actions .
Universal Music Group , which has an equity stake in a potential MP3.com competitor , Musicbank , is the last remaining plaintiff in the copyright infringement suit brought by the Recording Industry Association of America on behalf of the five major labels .
Wednesday 's decision came months after Rakoff ruled that MP3.com violated copyrights by creating its my.mp3.com service without first obtaining licenses from record labels and song publishers .
The other labels -- EMI , Warner Music , BMG , and Sony -- reached settlement agreements with MP3.com .
The terms of those agreements have not been disclosed , but reports had the company paying a reported $ 20 million to each label .
Included were licensing provisions that would have the company pay 1.5 cents per song stored by people in virtual lockers , and one-third of a cent each time a song is streamed .
The deals would allow MP3.com to use music from four of the major labels in its my.mp3.com service , although the company still has a pending lawsuit with the music publishers to settle as well .




U.S. , Russia Sign Plutonium Pact

WASHINGTON , DC -- The United States and Russia have signed an agreement to turn tons of weapons-grade plutonium into fuel for nuclear reactors .
Critics at the independent Nuclear Control Institute say the pact is " premature and dangerous , " and could lead to increased risk of nuclear proliferation or terrorist capture of bomb materials .
On Friday , Vice President Al Gore signed the United States-Russian Federation Agreement on behalf of the United States .
The agreement , announced in Moscow in June by U.S. President Bill Clinton and Russian President Vladimir Putin , aims to turn excess weapons-grade plutonium into forms that can not be used for weapons .
Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov had already signed the agreement , which took effect Sunday with Gores signature .
" This accomplishment advances the critical task of reducing stockpiles of excess weapons plutonium and contributes to key U.S. arms control and non-proliferation objectives , " says a White House statement .
But the Nuclear Control Institute , a Washington , DC based independent research and advocacy center specializing in issues of nuclear proliferation , says the agreement only delays the day of reckoning for the excess plutonium .
NCI
" This agreement kicks the tough decisions about plutonium disposition down the road , " said Paul Leventhal , president of NCI . "
If the safeguards and liability questions could have been resolved easily , they would have been .
The complicating factor in all this is both nations insistence on using warhead plutonium as fuel in nuclear power plants . "
The agreement requires that each country dispose of 34 metric tons of weapons-grade plutonium -- enough for thousands of nuclear weapons .
Most of the plutonium will be turned into mixed-oxide fuel and irradiated in nuclear reactors .
MOX
The balance will be combined with high level radioactive wastes , and disposed of in permanent underground repositories .
The U.S. intends to use 25.5 tons as fuel and immobilize 8.5 tons for disposal .
The Russian Federation intends to use all 34 tons as fuel .
" With strong technical support , the alternative of directly disposing of weapons plutonium by immobilizing it in highly radioactive waste would be faster , cheaper and safer than using it as fuel in reactors , " noted NCI research director Steven Dolley . "
It would be much easier to resolve safeguards and liability issues if the primary disposition method were to immobilize plutonium in waste rather than turn it into fuel . "
The new agreement does not resolve , but merely calls for further negotiations on questions related to liability in case of a MOX fuel accident , safeguarding and monitoring of disposition , and financial assistance arrangements , NCI charges .
The U.S. has pledged $ 200 million to help Russia implement the agreement , but millions more in funding has not been secured .
" Without settling these issues , the agreement is clearly premature , " said Tom Clements , NCI executive director . "
Plutonium disposition will not proceed in either nation , and stubborn insistence on the complex and risky plutonium fuel approach will be to blame . "
Both countries will need to build new industrial-scale facilities to convert the plutonium into fuel or immobilize it with other wastes .
By 2007 , these facilities must be converting or disposing of two metric tons per year , the agreement says .
Both countries must seek to at least double that rate , although there is no timeline set for this part of the pact .
Under the agreement , the process of converting or immobilizing the plutonium as well as the end products created will be subject to international monitoring .
Any additional plutonium that either country designates as " excess " to national defense needs will fall under the same program , so the final total could be more than 68 tons of plutonium .
" Plutonium advocates worldwide view this program as a shortcut to reviving a plutonium industry now in decline , and introducing this dangerous fuel into U.S. nuclear power reactors after it was abandoned two decades ago , " said NCIs Leventhal . "
This program could become a model for other nations that covet plutonium for civilian applications that easily can be diverted for military use . "
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS
All rights reserved .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Peapod Cuts Back , Expands

Peapod Inc. , an online grocery delivery service in the midst of a corporate turnaround , said it is shutting down operations in four cities and opening up shop in Washington , DC .
On Thursday , the Skokie , Illinois company announced that it agreed to buy assets of grocery delivery competitor Streamline.com for $ 12 million .
Executives said the purchase will allow Peapod to move into Washington , DC and expand in Chicago .
At the same time , Peapod announced that it is closing its delivery service in Columbus , Ohio as well as in Austin , Houston , and Dallas .
Executives said they did not think the company could turn a profit in those cities , where instead of relying on a central warehouse , Peapod employees purchased groceries at local stores and delivered them to customers ' homes .
" We do n't believe the future is in in-store picking , " said Peapod President and CEO Marc van Gelder . "
We believe in a centralized distribution model . "
Peapod 's move to expand in new markets and shut down in others is part of a long-term effort by the money-losing firm to turn around its financial fortunes by developing a cheaper , more efficient system for filling orders .
This past spring , Peapod was perched on the brink of collapse .
PPOD
The abrupt departure of its former CEO and failure to obtain an expected round of venture capital investment left the company almost out of cash .
But in late April , the company got a fresh infusion of cash and support from a major industry player , grocery holding company Royal Ahold .
The company , which owns Stop And Shop and a host of other supermarket assets , invested $ 73 million in Peapod in exchange for a majority ownership stake .
Over the last four months , Royal Ahold and Peapod have been moving the grocery delivery service away from a personalized shopping and focusing on using warehouses and storage space in Ahold-owned stores to stock goods for Peapod customers .
Van Gelder said Peapod chose to exit markets in Texas and Columbus largely because Ahold did n't have stores and storage space in those cities that the company could use .
Executives said the closures would affect only a small percentage of Peapod 's customers , who numbered 135,000 at mid-year .
In addition , the company will ship products via mail to customers in the cities it is leaving , as part of a nationwide service .
The announcements had a modest impact on Peapod 's stock .
Shares rose 3.3 percent , or 6 cents in afternoon trading to $ 2.06 .
Shares of the company have been hovering close to $ 2 since April .




Pop Go the Hollywood Dot-Coms

LOS ANGELES -- In Hollywood , people like to say it 's all about who you know .
But even dropping the biggest names in Tinsel Town , such as Steven Spielberg , Ron Howard or David Geffen , is n't enough to salvage a sinking entertainment dot-com company .
In the latest installment in a saga that could be a miniseries called " The Rise and Fall of Hollywood Web Sites , " two companies -- Pop.com and Shockwave.com , which had touted big celebrity ties -- confirmed on Wednesday they had laid off staff .
Pop.com , the would-be Web site backed by filmmakers Steven Spielberg , Ron Howard and other Hollywood moguls confirmed it had laid off most of its staff , which industry sources said presumably meant pulling the plug on the troubled upstart .
" Although the Internet continues to represent an exciting creative opportunity for us , the market has shifted dramatically since our original announcement , resulting in this being a less viable business for us , " a spokeswoman for Pop.com said .
" We will retain a small staff to maintain our creative endeavors .
At this time , we have not made a decision regarding distribution of the original content we produced or acquired , " she said .
Lawrence Levy , chief executive of Shockwave.com , which has created some online programs with stars like Tim Burton , Jim Belushi , James L. Brooks and Ben Stein , said it cut back on costs and has laid off about 20 out of 170 employees .
" This is a challenging time for everybody in this space , " said Levy . "
The market 's going through a very healthy shakeout and we 'll be left with the companies that drive this medium and will become the major brands two to three years from now , " he said . "
It 's a matter of getting focused and efficient . "
Indeed , sources said Pop.com , which never aired a single show , had been plagued by infighting and uncertainty about the company 's direction and business plan .
The formation of Glendale , California-based Pop.com was announced in October with much fanfare by its famous founders , which include Spielberg ; Jeffrey Katzenberg ; David Geffen of DreamWorks ; Imagine Entertainment 's Howard and Brian Grazer ; and Vulcan Ventures , the investment vehicle for Microsoft 's co-founder Paul Allen .
In a last-ditch effort , Pop.com had recently entered into talks to merge with popular entertainment Webcaster Ifilm , but those negotiations collapsed by last Friday without a deal .
" Nobody in this space has really found the magic or killer application yet and just because someone is good at making movies does n't mean they 're good at making Web sites , " said Malcolm Maclachlan , analyst with International Data Corp.
" Attaching a bunch of famous people to a Web site is not going to make it successful , " he said .
Levy of Shockwave said he has been taking a hard look at the company since he joined three months ago . "
We 've come to the conclusion on how to create a viable business over next 12 months to 18 months , " he said , adding that Shockwave will continue focusing on original content and interactive games , but will also look outside the company for content .
" We 'll make some of the content ourselves through our own Shockwave studio , but we 'll also go out and do deals with talent and creative developers , " he said .
Experts said that many of the online entertainment companies have failed because they have just tried to repackage traditional content for the Internet .
" Your content has to leverage the new medium .
You can n't just republish content made for other mediums and then put it on the Web .
It has to have interactivity and a community , " Levy said .
The list of troubled Hollywood dot-coms goes on .
Back in June , Digital Entertainment Network filed for bankruptcy and is now being investigated for possible fraudulent asset sales prior to its filing .
DEN
And Scour , an online multimedia company backed by Hollywood power broker Michael Ovitz , late last week announced that a pending copyright infringement lawsuit filed against it by the film and music industries has scared off potential investors and prompted it to lay off 52 of its 70 employees .
Two trade groups filed the suit against Scour on behalf of more than 20 companies , including the film and music arms of such giants as Sony Pictures , Time Warner Inc. and the Walt Disney Co.




Amex Deals Disposable Credit

On Thursday , American Express announced Private Payments , a new program which allows consumers to buy online without transmitting their real credit card numbers over the Internet .
For each online purchase , the customer receives a random number that expires after the transaction .
Private Payments is the latest attempt to foil Internet fraud and encourage safety-concerned consumers to spend their dollars online .
" Consumers have a real fear of having their credit card stolen , " said Alfred F. Kelly , Jr. , group president of U.S. consumer and small business services at American Express . "
AXP
This fear is the biggest obstacle for a real boom in e-commerce . "
New York-based American Express also said that it will work with digital privacy company Privada Inc. on a second product that will let consumers choose how much information to reveal when browsing the Web .
Kelly declined to offer details on what it calls its " Private Browser " program , but said the two services will be part of a series of initiatives aimed at addressing Internet security and privacy .
Private Payments will be available next month to American Express consumer and small business cardholders in the United States .




Sega Seeks Net Profits

Sega is betting big that gamers would much rather frag their friends than kill off random alien beings .
The company , which is third to Nintendo and Sony in the competitive console gaming market and faces a looming threat in Microsoft 's X-Box , hopes that Net-enabling their products will put them back on a winning streak .
During Thursday night 's MTV Video Music Awards , the video-game company behind the critically acclaimed Dreamcast system will unveil SegaNet , the centerpiece of a comprehensive online strategy intended as a pre-emptive strike against the October 26 North American launch of Sony 's PlayStation 2 system .
SegaNet is a full-fledged Internet service , offering standard functions such as Web access and email .
For gamers , however , SegaNet 's allure is online competition with hotly anticipated Dreamcast titles such as pro football sim NFL2K1 , first-person shooter Quake III Arena , and role-playing adventure Phantasy Star Online .
Sega 's service will also offer chat rooms , cheat codes , and other game-oriented content .
Gamers who opt out of SegaNet can continue to access its game lobbies via their current service provider .
Although computer gamers have been playing titles like Age of Empires and Unreal Tournament on the Net for years , online gaming is virgin territory for most of the console crowd .
" Our aim , " said Charles Bellfield , Sega 's director of marketing and corporate communications " is to get the play ability patterns of the consumer into a different mode , to get them used to going online through a console , and get them used to playing against their friends . "
Initially available only in the 48 contiguous states , SegaNet will cost $ 21.95 per month .
That makes it one of the more pricey ISPs , but Sega will rebate the full price of a Dreamcast purchase to gamers who sign on for an 18-month hitch .
Speaking of that Dreamcast price , Sega slashed it by $ 50 last week , to $ 149 .
Even without the rebate , that 's roughly half of what PlayStation 2 will sell for at launch .
While Sony executives have repeatedly taken the position that PlayStation 2 will support broadband Internet access sometime in the future , Dreamcast owners will be able to connect to SegaNet and begin playing immediately , via the system 's built-in 56K modem .
By pushing a narrowband solution , Sega is banking on market research , which indicates that only 31 percent of U.S. households will have broadband access by 2004 .
In a concession to Dreamcast owners with cable or DSL access , however , Sega will offer a broadband adapter for the system in the fourth quarter of 2000 .
" Our aim is to give consumers an experience they will n't get from Sony , they will n't get from Microsoft , and they will n't get from Nintendo , " Bellfield said . "
The concept of online games to us is where the future of this industry has got to go . "
SegaNet 's infrastructure is provided by Genuity , and promises low-latency online play for selected computer game titles as well as Dreamcast games .
formerly GTE Internetworking
Sega hopes that the new ISP revenue will help the company return to profitability after three consecutive years of losses .
The company president resigned in May after the most recent annual figures came out .
Sega also wants to make the Dreamcast more of a general computing device , and has announced that peripherals including an MP3 player , Ethernet card , and Zip drive will be out before year 's end .




Eudora Retards Flames

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
If you have a hot temper or do n't liked to get flamed , Eudora 5.0 may be the email program for you .
The newest version of the Qualcomm software features MoodWatch , an automated emotion monitor that scans the text of both incoming and outgoing email for the sorts of " aggressive , demeaning , or rude language , " that typically appear in flames -- or abusive electronic communications .
QCOM
" Studies have shown that people tend to be more aggressive in email than in other forms of communication , " said Jeffrey K. Belk , senior vice president and general manager of Qualcomm Eudora Products .
" MoodWatch simply helps them be more aware of how they may be coming across . "
MoodWatch graphically grades incendiary mail using a scale of one to three chili peppers , with three chilies marking the most flammable missives .
A one-chili-pepper rating warns that you " better hope you know the person " you are sending the email to .
Two chili peppers alerts you to the fact that you should " Watch out , you 're playin ' with fire . "
Three chili peppers translates to " Whoa , this is the kind of thing that might get your keyboard washed out with soap . "
" It 's a whole lot of fun , " said Belk , who notes that MoodWatch can be configured for user-defined levels of sensitivity or turned off altogether .
" Or maybe you 're the sort who will wear the chilies with defiant pride . "
MoodWatch is based on theories developed by David Kaufer , chairman of the English department at Carnegie Mellon University , and employs an algorithm to identify words and phrases that might be offensive .
The fine art of flaming is explored in a helpful white paper by Kaufer that explains the rationale and the technology behind MoodWatch .
Kaufer explained that MoodWatch breaks flames down into eight basic categories .
There 's the " Screw you ! " flame that intimidates though " direct aggressiveness against the reader " and the ever-popular " Screw everyone ! " flame that attacks entire subgroups and can upset readers because of the " speaker 's callousness and zest for degrading other human beings . "
MoodWatch also looks for emails employing the " heated denial " defense which takes the form of comments such as " that 's bullshit . "
Kaufer explained the software will even watch for the " paranoid " type of flame , which incorporates " phrases that indicate that the speaker sees him or herself cut off from a hostile and conniving world , " along with those pesky " face threats , " which put the emailer " right in the face of the reader " with such upbeat sentiments as " f*** you . "




Tiny Screens , Big Images

Have you ever been on an airplane and wanted to watch a racy DVD on your laptop but were too embarrassed ?
Later this year you may be able to , thanks to a new range of microdisplays -- tiny screens that when magnified appear as large as a regular monitor but offer total privacy .
Based on a new , high-resolution and low-cost display technology , microdisplays will start appearing on the market toward the end of the year , and may impact everything from how you use a computer to the way you watch TV .
Microdisplays work by magnifying a tiny screen to fill your field of vision , allowing a display measuring one-tenth of an inch to look like a full-sized theater screen .
Thanks to their diminutive proportions , microscreens can be built directly on top of silicon chips and easily mounted on special glasses , monocles and other lightweight , head-mounted displays .
In the third quarter , for example , inViso plans to introduce a pair of eShades that can be plugged into a laptop or portable DVD player .
The potential uses for microdisplays are legion , said Gary Jones , the CEO of eMagin , an upstate New York manufacturer of screens for microdisplays .
EMagin recently developed the first chip-sized , active-matrix screen with the resolution of a standard 1,280 by 1,024 monitor .
The screen boasts more than 1 million pixels packed into an area smaller than a postage stamp .
Measuring only 0.77 of an inch diagonally , the screen can show real-time video in 256 shades of gray , the company said .
Within a year , microdisplays will turn up in headsets like inViso 's that can be plugged into notebooks or desktops , Jones said , as well as a wide range of digital camera and camcorder viewfinders , cell phones , handhelds , car audio players , and instrument panels .
Jones said he also expects to see microdisplays for handhelds that solve the problem of trying to squint at unreadable , monochrome screens .
" You could have an ultra-portable laptop , " he said . "
The headset folds up in your pocket and connects to a handheld with a fold-out keyboard .
So you have a large , virtual CRT monitor and a keyboard , but it all fits in the pocket of your coat . "




IBM 's Olympic Nervous System

SYDNEY , Australia -- First , there 's a metal detector at the building 's front door .
Then , a security ID-operated elevator .
Finally , three tough metal doors have to be penetrated with a special-issue magnetic swipe card .
Only then -- properly escorted , of course -- can you approach the inner sanctum .
There , from inside a plexiglass human fish tank , you can look out over that holiest of holies : the central nervous system of the Summer Olympics .
Hunched over 300 computers is a mostly male , young , and pasty-white collection of cyber-age data traffic cops who , for the next three weeks , will control just about everything you see , hear , and read from the Games .
Day and night , this three-shift-a-day army of binary gatekeepers will bundle billions of bytes of news and data from this antipodean city onto the world 's fiber and satellite pipes , and eventually to the hungry sports mavens and couch potato athletes of the world .
After the technological black eye it suffered at the Atlanta Olympics in 1996 , IBM is leaving nothing to chance at the 2000 Games , which begin here Friday with the opening ceremonies .
IBM
Over the past year , IBM has tested its technology and its people at virtually every qualifying sporting event held in Australia , said Vickie Regan , vice president of Sydney Olympic technology .
And in the last three months , IBM has conducted two major rehearsals of Olympic conditions , the most recent one just a few weeks ago .
Those rehearsals included going through the paces of Sept. 22 , expected to be the busiest single day of the Games .
Twenty-three events are scheduled that day .
Now , with just about everything in place and the drills completed , it 's not so much the computers and technology that worry Regan anymore .
It 's the hothouse chemistry of human relations -- under stress -- for 17 days .
From this one floor of a central Sydney office building will be collected and aggregated the raw material of the biggest tribal gathering on the planet .
And for the first time the right and left brain of the Olympics , as well as winged messenger Mercury , all will be located in one place .
in a technological sense
The left brain will be IBM 's raw data collection team , feeding everybody and everything from broadcasters to scoreboards with official data -- 4.7 terabytes of it by the time the games are over .
The right brain will be the creative types running the official Olympics website , pushing out more information to more people over the Internet than any sporting event ever held .
And the winged messenger Mercury will be the top-level telecommunications network managers from Australia 's telecom giant Telstra .
For the first time , one telecommunications company will bear total one-stop , end-to-end responsibility for just about anything Olympic going up or down a phone wire , fiber-optic cable , or satellite .
It 's Telstra on the hot seat .




Test Your DNA for Only $ 99.95

WASHINGTON - Genetic testing may take hours , instead of days , and be performed in a doctor 's office , instead of at a distant lab , with the use of a new gene identification technique developed at Northwestern University .
Researchers report Friday in the journal Science that the technique uses tiny gold beads and a modified photo-developing solution to highlight the presence and density of DNA in a test specimen .
The new technique reads the results using a simple photo scanner costing less than $ 100 , said Chad A. Mirkin , a co-author of the study .
The most widely used current DNA testing technique requires a $ 60,000 microscope , he said .
" Once this system is developed , it may be possible for a doctor to do DNA testing in his office , or for soldiers in the field to do tests to identify biological weapons , " Mirkin said .
Just as do the current test methods , the new technique starts with DNA chips , glass slides imbedded with strands of synthesized DNA .
The slide is placed in a solution containing the test specimen , and target DNA in the specimen binds to the DNA strands on the slide .
Mirkin said the new element in the technique is the use of gold beads a nanometer in diameter .
A nanometer is one-billionth of a meter .
The width of a human hair is about 100 nanometers .
The gold beads are covered with about 200 strands of DNA .
When they are spilled over the DNA slide , the beads match up and cling to the corresponding DNA in the specimen .
Mirkin said the slide is then immersed in a photographic solution .
Silver ions in the solution bond with the gold and form black beads of metallic silver that may be 100,000 times bigger than the gold beads .
The whole slide is then put onto a photo scanner .
The silver beads , which mark where there has been a DNA match , show up as gray to black dots .
The darkness of the dot shows the amount of target DNA present in the specimen , said Mirkin .
Mirkin said the technique is about 100 times more sensitive than current methods and is able to detect as few as 60 molecules of DNA .
To achieve that sensitivity , current DNA tests require that the DNA detected be amplified by a laboratory process .
The new DNA test is still in the early stages of development , said Mirkin , but eventually it could be used to genetically identify diseases -- from cancer to AIDS -- and to detect gene mutations .
On the battlefield , he said , the technique could be used to identify biological warfare agents , such as anthrax , so that soldiers could quickly be given the appropriate drugs .




Fodors for Free Speechers

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- People here are turning to a news source outside the mainstream to get an insider 's view on how to survive the United Nations ' Millennium Summit .
Multi-block areas of Manhattan are being closed off to accommodate both foreign dignitaries and protesters , so locals are participating in the creation of an open-source survivor guide .
Many New Yorkers feel that the " open source?open content " Independent Media Center website is doing a better job of getting the real news out than the mainstream media , despite the fact that the city has refused to issue press passes to that group and to other nonprofit sites .
" There are going to be 90 or so demonstrations near the United Nations that police will have to close the streets for , " said Cindy Magulus , head of human resources for Film Opticals , a special-effects production company .
" Not only does the website tell you where the protests will be , especially the unofficial ones , they also are providing great information on how to get around the city by foot and subway , " Magulus said . "
Frankly I do n't think I 've ever seen a better source of local information for what really is starting to feel like a crisis . "
The site has a complete " care package " for marching protestors , including pointers on cheap hotels and restaurants , detailed city maps , and a list of designated meeting places , along with services for roving reporters , such as copy shops , film processing centers and cafes .
Residents have been warned that huge stretches of the city can and will be closed without warning to allow the assembled 150 world leaders free passage through the streets , or to contain any of the protests that are breaking out all over the city .
Bike messenger Harim Veracruz says that the IndyMedia site has been " a godsend " for him and his colleagues .
" All the messengers are using it , " he said . "
There 's a map of the city , information on who is going to be where , what parts of the city to avoid , how to get from here to there fast , even restaurant recommendations .
It 's a very helpful site . "
Veracruz said he 's even " gotten educated as to why these people are so angry " by reading some of the political news on the site , and is considering joining a protest walk to the U.N. on Friday .
IndyMedia was launched by activists during the World Trade Organization protests in Seattle last November ; 28 local sites now span the globe from Canada to the Democratic Republic of Congo .




Attack of the Uber Tomatoes

In preliminary findings , a team of researchers has developed a tomato that packs a greater nutritional punch than one that is grown conventionally .
The tomato has more than twice as much of the antioxidant lycopene and a longer shelf life , according to researchers with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Purdue University in West Lafayette , Indiana .
Antioxidants are compounds that prevent free radicals from damaging cells .
Free radicals are natural byproducts of the metabolic process .
" Antioxidants are very important to fight blindness in children , prevent cancer and benefit cardiovascular health in humans , " said Dr. Autar K. Mattoo , a plant physiologist with the USDA 's Agricultural Research Service .
The tomato has been modified to include a gene from yeast .
Scientists reconstructed the gene in a test tube so that it would be switched on during the ripening process , thereby slowing the amount of time it takes a tomato to mature .
A slower ripening process allows more time for lycopene to accumulate .
Mattoo stressed that his findings have not yet been published and it will be years before consumers can buy the genetically modified fruit in stores .
Still , the findings come in the midst of a fierce global debate over the potential health risks and environmental impact of genetically modified foods .
In May , the U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced that it would create a " GE-free " program , in which manufacturers could voluntarily label products that had not been genetically engineered .
In Europe , consumer opposition to genetically modified foods has had an impact on U.S. exports .




Study : Computers Do n't Help Kids

Billions of dollars spent on school computers and Internet connections deliver little long-term benefit and could be better spent on more teachers and other improvements , a group critical of technology in the classroom said Tuesday .
" We 've gone down this highway of bringing computers into elementary schools with so little debate , and spending such huge sums , " said Joan Almon , a former Baltimore kindergarten teacher and head of the U.S. branch of Alliance for Childhood .
" If we were spending so much money on other aspects of education with so little evidence of gain , we 'd be ashamed of ourselves , " she said .
A major Clinton administration goal has been eliminating the " digital divide " by bringing computers and Internet access into the nation 's schools .
The alliance , an international partnership of educators , doctors , and psychologists based in College Park , Md. , wants a " time-out " from policies that emphasize computers as an ideal educational tool for toddlers , preschoolers , and elementary school students .
Many experts say there is little direct evidence linking computer use and higher school achievement .
A study performed in 1998 by the Educational Testing Service found that fourth- and eighth-graders scored 15 percent higher on math tests after using computers to play learning games , but derived no benefit using computers to practice basic skills .
The new report said that despite the limited research on the impact of computers on education , U.S. public schools have spent more than $ 27 billion on computers and related technology in the past five years .
That money , the report concludes , could be better spent on other educational priorities such as reducing class sizes , repairing schools , and eliminating lead poisoning .
The report warns that computers may account for a rise in health problems among children , including repetitive stress injuries , eye strain , and obesity .
Focusing too much on technology can also distract children from the social interaction they need to develop language skills and bonds with adults .




Live from DEMOmobile 2000 !

PASADENA , California -- Mobile computing has n't quite achieved Star Trek tricorder levels of complexity yet , but it 's getting there .
What 's readily apparent here at IDG 's DEMOmobile 2000 conference on mobile technology is that the technology is getting far more advanced , and that because of it , we 're going to have more items to carry around , not less .
Simplicity is Best
San Francisco-based Scout Electromedia was one of several companies showing off new toys , the most interesting of which was the modo , a pager-sized device with a decidedly alien look to it .
Designed as a consumer product , the modo will be sold in places like Virgin Records Megastore and fashion outlets like DKNY .
Modo offers a free service in which information on news , restaurant guides , nightlife activity and local events is beamed down to the unit .
Content is localized for each city , and the player is transportable -- so a user in New York can go to San Francisco and automatically receive San Francisco-oriented content .
But the modo is designed to receive information , not send it : The unit has only a small LCD graphical screen and three navigation buttons .
The design focus was simplicity , said the company .
" It 's not easy to make something people can pick up and get in two minutes , " said Geoff Pitfield , president and CEO of Scout Electromedia .
The modo unit will sell for $ 99 and the service is free , with no subscription rates or charges .
Scout Electromedia will make its money through banner ads displayed on the unit 's LCD screen .
The modo will also transmit sale alerts -- in one promotion , customers who bring the unit in to Virgin Records will receive a discount .
" So the modo unit becomes the coupon , " said Pitfield .
Modo uses the pager network , said Pitfield .
Data is regularly pumped out from Scout to the device by a team of local editors in each city who create new content and aggregate information , such as movie and event listings .
Modo is launching in New York next week , in Los Angeles and San Francisco in October , in Chicago in November , and in Atlanta , Boston and Miami in early 2001 .
Does Size Really Matter ?
According to a panel of vice presidents discussing the future of portable technology , convergence is n't going to happen any time soon .
Part of the problem is due to size constraints .
" There are some diametrically opposed issues &#91;in convergence&#93 ; -- battery size versus the physical size of the keypad , " said Joe Siphler , vice president of product marketing for Handspring , a developer of handheld devices and peripherals . "
You have to stuff that all into a form factor that 's attractive for a customer and it 's not easy to do . "
Sprint , a lead competitor in the wireless Internet market , said it will focus on delivering applications and content , rather than on developing wireless devices , because there will always be different types of access devices .
" Customers want to access information in multiple ways , " said Jay Highley , vice president of business marketing for Sprint PCS . "
Customers want choice .
I would say you will always see multiple form factors , some of which we have n't seen yet . "
The biggest problem is not the device , but the limitations on bandwidth .
Wireless Internet access is delivered at 14.4 kbps speed , which is 1992 modem technology .
" The reason people are amazed at the speed &#91;of wireless Internet access&#93 ; is because you 're only bringing down slices of HTML , we 're not bringing down the whole Web experience , " said Highley .
Sprint is launching a 56 kbps network with new compression techniques and plans to deploy a 144 kbps network by early 2002 .
Something New from Big Blue
IBM introduced a new laptop with built-in wireless LAN connectivity as well as support for the Bluetooth wireless communication protocol .
The ThinkPad i Series uses IBM 's High Rate Wireless LAN technology to transfer data at up to 11Mbits/sec , using a 2.4 Ghz frequency , which gives the laptop a range from 80 to 1,750 feet from the receiver , depending on the construction of the office .
Older Thinkpad notebooks can get on a High Rate Wireless LAN network through PCMCIA cards that sell for $ 179 .
The new ThinkPad i Series 1300 notebook computers will be available in the early fourth quarter , starting at $ 1149 .
The new Bluetooth PC Card from IBM will be available in October starting at $ 189 .
The Tiniest Computer 2000
Give Microsoft credit for hanging in there .
It introduced Handheld PC 2000 , the latest generation of its handheld operating system .
HPC 2000 is based on Windows CE 3.0 and features an integrated client for Windows 2000 Terminal Services , an IE 4.0-compatible browser , Windows Media Player , and handheld versions of Microsoft Office .
HPC 2000 was introduced along with Hewlett-Packard 's new Jornada 720 handheld PC , an updated version of the Jornada 690 .
The Jornada 720 will sell for $ 999 .




Surprise : Protests at Econ Confab

MELBOURNE , Australia -- A human chain of protestors Monday had the World Economic Forum meeting locked up tighter than a casino cash box .
Creating a fence of human bodies , an estimated 10,000 protesters blocked off entrances to the city 's Crown Casino , where the Asian version of the annual Davos economics confab of the world 's rich and powerful was being held .
The action marked the continuation of anti-globalization protests begun at the Seattle World Trade Organization meeting last December and followed up at the April meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington .
Aware of this week 's planned protests , Victorian state police over the weekend erected concrete barriers mounted by metal fencing around the riverside complex to keep gate crashers out .
Protesters responded in turn , ringing the fence with human shields .
But with many of the delegates to the conference already staying inside , only minimal disruption to the conference itself occurred .
Outside was different .
" Every day you regurgitate the propaganda put out by the big corporations , " said one protestor , one of many who hugged journalists to prevent them from passing through the barricade . "
Today , for this one day , you have to listen to us . "
Police , only sporadically challenging the blockade , mostly allowed protesters to seal off the building .
Surreptitious efforts to bring in stranded participants by boat also failed , as did efforts to take them by car and bus -- somewhat ludicrously -- through the casino 's main entrance .
In the day 's major episode of violence , a car carrying Western Australian Premier Richard Court was stopped by protesters , leading to a baton charge by police that resulted in police and protester injuries .
Other scuffles were sporadic .
Several police officers and up to 40 protesters were injured during the day in various fisticuffs , although no arrests were made .
As a cool rain fell on the gray river Yarra fronting the casino , protestors aired a litany of complaints to a captive audience amid gusts of early spring winds and the roar of police helicopters overhead .
Most protesters focussed on three main issues : corporate greed ; third world , low-wage labor exploitation ; and global environmental degradation .
These tend to get lumped under a heading of opposition to progressive , worldwide , market-oriented economic liberalism known by its more familiar shorthand : globalization .
But if globalization is evil , it was hard to see a cohesive alignment of thoughts and deeds among Monday 's protestors .
For instance , after a flashy show in front of the casino , a dominatrix representing rapacious global capital dismounted her steed , covered her shoulders against the chill wind , and retired for a well-deserved , foreign-made smoke in the welcome windbreak of a nearby building .
Elsewhere , protestors chatted endlessly through mobile phones overwhelmingly produced by global telecom equipment titans such as Nokia , Ericsson , and Motorola .
Many of the foreigners taking part presumably devised much of their travel via the globe-girdling wonder of IP protocols , probably flying to Australia -- a foreign country -- on budget airline tickets created by decades of global airline industry deregulation .
As such , it appears the " anti-globalization " message could still use some refining .
Day two of the three-day conference will feature American software billionaire Bill Gates , who is scheduled to address the meeting .
Each year , global financial and political leaders gather in the Swiss ski town of Davos for several days of schmoozing and brainstorming under the rubric of the World Economic Forum .
For years , a smaller , Asian regional version of the event also has been held , but traditionally in Hong Kong or Singapore .
This year the conference is being held in Melbourne so the bigwigs can enjoy the Sydney Olympics afterwards .




A Captive Audience Learns Tech

Delinquent teens in Maine were once as troubled as the juvenile detention center where they were housed .
But with the help of MIT researchers and support from Maine Gov. Angus King , the students and the facility itself are rebuilding .
Seymour Papert , co-founder of the Artificial Intelligence Lab at MIT and one of the earliest advocates of using technology to enhance learning , is leading a project for teen-age criminal offenders at the Maine Youth Center in South Portland , Maine .
The project has helped to engage and inspire kids who 've seen little support at home or school , or who are grappling with drugs , alcohol , anger , or psychological problems .
The project is a positive step forward for the center , which was criticized by the American Correctional Association and Amnesty International in 1998 , when an investigation found that residents ' rights had been violated through excessive use of restraints and solitary confinement .
As part of its rebuilding process , the Maine Youth Center will open a new facility next year .
Papert 's project has been part of a broader effort to improve educational programs at the center , including better mental health counseling and special education .
" This is a place that called out for creating a learning environment as different as possible from the traditional school model that these kids have known , " Papert said .
Instead of taking classes like English , math , and science in a traditional format , about 15 to 20 kids ages 14 through 20 spend their normal school day working on challenging , complex activities in Papert 's alternative classroom .
Student projects range from creating animation and digital films to building programmable robots using Lego Mindstorms .
Papert said the project teaches kids how to formulate a goal and work to achieve it , while building their self-esteem and learning the principles of mathematics , science , and engineering .
For example , one activity has students building a model vehicle that could ascend the steepest possible slope without toppling over .
As students increase the angle of the slope and the car fails , they learn a scientific lesson .
They learn about friction , center of gravity , and gear changing , and then how to make the car work again .
" We 've seen some quite remarkable results , " Papert said . "
They get a terrific sense of achievement . "
Students who were regarded as hopeless in traditional schools have performed at high intellectual levels , he said .
In the project-based environment , the Maine Youth Center residents also have the chance to ask questions , and are not confined by a set curriculum and assessment tests .
" It 's probably the first time that they 're in a learning environment where they feel successful , " said Denise Lord , associate commissioner at the Maine Department of Corrections . "
They 're setting their own expectations instead of having to meet someone else 's . "
" Heretofore the emphasis has been ' lock 'em up , and by the way , teach ' em , ' " King said . "
What we 're trying to do is reverse that .
The emphasis is on education , but keep them separate from society until they 're ready to contribute . "
In addition to the kids themselves , feedback from social workers , probation officers , and members of the community has been positive .
Papert said that many of the kids they have worked with now seem to have their lives on track .
The researchers are in the process of compiling results since the program began last fall .
A report of their findings will be presented at a conference on education in corrections in the spring , and copies will be sent to juvenile correctional facilities around the country , Papert said .




They 're Poisoning Our Kids

WASHINGTON -- The 24 billion pounds of neurological toxins released annually into the U.S. environment are linked to millions of cases of developmental disabilities in children , claims a report released Friday .
Louisiana and Texas are the worst chemical polluters of air and water , according to the report , which was prepared by the National Environmental Trust , Physicians for Social Responsibility , and the Learning Disabilities Association of America .
They were followed by Tennessee , Ohio , Illinois , Georgia , Virginia , Michigan , Pennsylvania , and Florida .
The report is the first to comprehensively examine the scope and sources of toxic chemicals known to cause health and developmental problems in children , said NET policy director Jeff Wise .
U.S. industries reported a mere 5 percent of the estimated total emissions of developmental and neurologicaltoxins -- 1.2 billion pounds -- to the Environmental Protection Agency , the report said .
The U.S. Census Bureau estimates that about 12 million American children under 18 -- one out of every six -- suffer from one or more developmental , learning , or behavioral disabilities .
These include mental retardation , birth defects , autism , or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder .
The National Academy of Sciences estimated earlier this year that 3 percent of developmental and neurological defects in children are caused by exposure to known toxic substances , including drugs , cigarette smoke , lead , PCBs , and mercury .
If that is accurate , it means that 360,000 children , or one in every 200 , suffer from developmental or neurological deficits caused by exposure to known toxic substances .
The report said that the actual impact of toxic chemicals on child development and learning is probably much greater .
The National Academy 's estimates considered only known toxins , but the majority of the 80,000 chemicals used commercially have never been tested for their developmental and neurological effects .
" Now we know what we have suspected for years , that toxic chemicals are bringing anguish to thousands of families in this country , " said Dr. Larry Silver , president of the Learning Disabilities Association of America . "
These are families that worry , work overtime , and go without to take care of a child with a developmental or neurological disability . "
There is a growing consensus among scientists that these toxins are contributing to a range of physical and mental problems in children .
The report also contains data suggesting that increases in low birthweight and premature births -- two important risk factors for a range of physical and mental defects -- are caused by toxins as well .
Most troubling is that these increases have been identified in young , healthy mothers having single births rather than in older women or multiple births , which carry a much higher risk of birth defects .
" While its usually impossible to say that a particular childs disability is caused by a toxic chemical , it is clear that toxic chemicals are taking a tragic toll across the population , " said Dr. Ted Schettler , an occupational and environmental health physician with Physicians for Social Responsibility .
The information is broken down by state and county , as well as by the types of industries that are the major polluters .
Chemical manufacturers , paper manufacturers , makers of metal and plastics , and electric power utilities emit the most neurological toxins , the report said .
The printing industry releases the most tolueneone , the most prevalent developmental and neurological toxin .
" Because many printing facilities are often closer to residential areas than other industries , should make greater efforts to switch to safer technologies that present less of a potential health risk to children nearby , " said Dr. Lynn Goldman , a pediatrician and professor at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health .
it
Another of the report 's disturbing conclusions is that minorities are more likely to be affected by these emissions because they tend to live closer to the areas where they occur .
Blacks exceed the national average in the counties most affected by the toxins .
The groups releasing the report say that because the U.S. regulatory system has focused primarily on cancer causing substances , it has not addressed this public health risk the way it should .
They urged the government to adopt new policies , including pre-market screening of new chemicals and mandatory testing of existing chemicals .
They also called for clearer labeling and pollution reporting , toxic chemical controls for electric power plants , and exposure and disease monitoring .
Said Schetteler : " This report is yet another in a series of wake-up calls to parents and policymakers that our children are being harmed by the current chemical environment and lack of regulatory oversight . "
Copyright Environment News Service 2000 .
ENS
All rights reserved .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS




Kmart : No Violence Without ID

WASHINGTON -- Young people itching to wreak virtual havoc with an Uzi via their Playstation will have to bring along a parent if they want to buy a violent video game from some major retailers .
Kmart said Thursday it will refuse sale of mature-rated games to anyone under 17 , using a barcode scanner that will prompt cashiers to ask for identification from youths .
After Kmart 's news conference in Washington , Wal-Mart announced it would enact the same policy .
In a letter last month to Alabama Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions , the president of Toys R Us said the practice is already in place at his company 's stores .
Sessions applauded the move , but said he would prefer that retailers stop selling mature-rated games , as Montgomery Ward and Sears , Roebuck and Co. already have done .
Sessions said he believes " intense involvement " with violent video games can cause a young person to become violent .
" Common sense should tell us that positively reinforcing sadistic behavior , as these games do , can not be good for our children , " said Sen. Sam Brownback , a Kansas Republican .
" We can not expect that the hours spent in school will mold and instruct a child 's mind but that hours spent playing violent games will not . "
Kmart executives said they believe their policy lets parents make decisions about video games .
" A step of responsibility that gets the parents involved is a smart step , rather than just walking away from the issue and letting someone else deal with it , " said Shawn Kahle , Kmart 's vice president of corporate affairs .
In May , Sessions , Brownback , and seven other senators sent a letter to executives of Kmart and several other major retailers encouraging them to pull the games off their shelves or prevent their sale to anyone younger than 17 .
Sen. Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut , the Democratic vice presidential nominee , was among those who signed the letter written by Sen. Tim Hutchinson , R-Ark .
Most video games sold at major retailers include a rating from the Entertainment Software Review Board advising consumers about which games are suitable for certain age groups .
Wal-Mart spokeswoman Jessica Moser said her company has invested more than $ 3 million on store signs and advertising to educate customers about the rating system .
Moser said she was not sure when Wal-Mart would implement the new policy .
Kmart plans to enact the policy Oct. 15 , in time for the holiday shopping season .
Brownback said the Senate Commerce Committee next week will examine the results of a Federal Trade Commission report on whether violent , adult-rated games are target-marketed to kids .
" If this is true -- and there is plenty of anecdotal evidence to suggest that it is -- this is a scandal and an outrage , " said Brownback , who authored an amendment that passed the Senate requesting the FTC to conduct the study .




PDA : ' Public ' Display Assistant ?

Two researchers testing Bluetooth devices last week discovered an integral flaw that allows users with personal digital assistants to eavesdrop on conversations .
Bluetooth , or short radio link , is heralded to be the up-and-coming technology that will permit handheld device users within 30 feet of each other to wirelessly send information to each other 's PDAs .
Almost 2,000 companies that make up the Bluetooth Special Interest Group are developing Bluetooth devices and services .
But Markus Jacobson and Susanne Wetzel , researchers at Lucent 's Bell Laboratories , a member of Bluetooth SIG , recently made a bleak observation about the technology .
The researchers realized the device could be bugged so that its encryption key could be easily obtained by an intruder who could then listen to the user 's phone conversation .
And that 's not all .
The researchers , who suggested to The New York Times that the Bluetooth technical standard has to be altered so the device 's " identity numbers " are masked and constantly changing pseudonyms when transmitted , also found it was possible to obtain the identity of the device and trace the user 's location .
" Of course anything that is transferred in the air can be listened to , " said Esko Sreese , technical manager for the wireless technology division at F-Secure , a security service provider . "
But it should n't be understood by anyone . "
Jacobson and Wetzel could not be reached for comment .
However , a spokesman for Intel , another member of Bluetooth SIG , was quick to defend the technology and assuage any fear expressed by consumers .
" As a special-interest group we have 2,000 companies planning to use and deploy Bluetooth , and experts analyzing the way Bluetooth can be used , " said Simon Ellis , an Intel spokesman and chairman of the Bluetooth SIG marketing group . "
INTC
In this example , analysis was done on the systems to understand what levels of protection Bluetooth provides and what additional levels of protection will be needed . "
Hewlett-Packard unveils new handheld PC : Hewlett-Packard last week introduced the Jornada 720 , its newest addition to the handheld PC family .
Unlike its predecessor in the Hewlett-Packard Jornada series , it comes with a media player and the capability to wirelessly synchronize data and access Internet desktop sites .
The Jornada 720 runs on Microsoft 's new Windows CE platform , or the recently announced Handheld PC 2000 platform .
MSFT
The Compaq iPAQ , Cassio 's Cassiopeia E-115 and Hewlett-Packard 's Jornada series -- all run on Microsoft 's proprietary Windows CE operating system .
Though handheld PCs are not nearly as ubiquitous as palms , Microsoft plans to continue its game plan and make the experience on its handheld devices similar to that of a desktop computer .
" We are actually very pleased with the Pocket PC 's acceptance , especially because it has those business applications for people who need more on a screen at a time , " said Microsoft group product manager Doug Dedo .




Newman 's Own Philanthropy Plan

BERKELEY , California -- For many new economy businessmen and women , making money is the easy part of their job .
Giving it away is much more difficult .
On Thursday evening , the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley brought in a well-known face to offer some words of wisdom on giving back : actor , businessman , and philanthropist Paul Newman .
He was the first in a series of speakers for the Haas School 's new forum on philanthropy in business .
While Newman is most renowned for his Oscar-winning tough-guy roles , he has more recently been giving away portions of the proceeds from his successful Newman 's Own line of salad dressings , popcorn , pasta sauces , and salsa to more than 1,000 charities .
The self-effacing and witty Newman charmed the crowd of students and professors as he talked about his business and philosophy with Laura Tyson , dean of Haas .
He attributed his success largely to whimsy , having a sense of humor about the business , and his extreme good fortune in life .
The motto above the door to his office , he said , reads : " If we ever have a plan , we 're screwed . "
But Newman said he views charitable contributions as investments in society , and he does n't think of a corporation as " just being a cash register . "
" It seems so human to hold your hand out to other people who are less fortunate , " Newman said . "
I do n't know why that can n't be part of the corporate mentality .
Once were committed for the first $ 10 , the rest was easy . "
we
One student asked how a new generation of entrepreneurs could best follow his example .
" I would gather as many troops as you could together inside the walls and storm the gates , " Newman said . "
Young people like yourselves are the real hopes for change in this arena .
It will come . "
Newman 's visit coincided with the announcement of a new class at the Haas School called " Contemporary Philanthropy . "
Prof. Frances Van Loo created the class in response to the growing number of graduates who are going on to lucrative careers , and finding themselves with a lot of money .
" Instead of getting rich over a lifetime , people are getting rich quick , " Van Loo said .




Linux Getting Its Game Face On

Sometimes a Linux geek just wants to have fun .
He 's had it with Slashdot , coding gets him down , and Star Wars has lost its luster .
The only thing he wants to do is cuddle up with a classic first-person shooter and nail-gun his best friend 's eyes to the wall .
In the old days , our hapless Linux lover would have had to turn to his Windows PC to play a blockbuster game like Quake or Descent because commercial game-makers just did n't make games for the relatively tiny Linux market .
But as Linux 's popularity has grown over the past couple of years , companies are working to make Linux gaming a comparable -- if complicated -- alternative to Windows .
And , in the process , Linux gamers are equipping the fledgling OSS with the tools needed to take on the Microsoft hegemony .
Leading the Linux gaming revolution is a Tustin , California company called Loki Entertainment Software , which converts popular Windows games for play on Linux .
or " ports "
" We 've changed the expectation , " said CEO Scott Draeker . "
A year ago , if there was a Linux version of a Windows game , it was a novelty . "
But now that Loki has ported a dozen games to Linux , including the smash-hit Quake III , Linux users have come to expect Linux versions of the newest games .
According to Draeker , Loki acquires porting rights from the Windows game developer and then makes money by selling the ported versions to Linux gamers .
Accordingly , the Linux versions are a little bit pricier than their Windows counterparts .
But although its games have been highly acclaimed among Linux aficionados for being virtually indistinguishable from the Windows originals , Loki has made a far greater contribution to the gaming industry : In the process of converting Windows games for Linux play , the company has created a number of open-source development tools billed as an alternative to DirectX , Microsoft 's set of proprietary , Windows-only game development libraries .
In the spirit of the Linux movement , Loki is giving away these development tools , which are " better than DirectX , " according to Draeker , because " coders can see their guts . "
" DirectX is monolithic -- a big set of things that you have to use all of or nothing .
So developers wind up using code they do n't need , " Draeker said .
Loki 's open-source , cross-platform libraries allow developers to pick and choose what they need , making game development more flexible .
Draeker thinks such initiatives will prompt the open-source community to begin creating Windows-like immersive games for OSS -- something Linux desperately needs if it 's going to go mainstream .




Wireless Patent Wars Heat up

It 's Round 2 in a wireless Web debate over broad technology patents .
Geoworks Corporation , a mobile-device service provider , has counter-sued Phone.com , alleging the software maker 's Web-enabled phone microbrowsers contain a Geoworks-owned " flexible user interface technology . "
GWRX
PHCM
Geoworks filed the complaint Friday with the United States International Trade Commission , asking it to block the importation of wireless application protocol phones with Phone.com 's microbrowser .
The complaint also names Japanese electric product maker and distributor Sanyo Electric and Sanyo North American Corporation because their phones contain Phone.com 's WAP browser .
" Geoworks has always believed that licensing , not litigation , is the best route to obtain compensation for the widespread use of Geoworks ' patented Flex UI technology , " said Dave Grannan , president and CEO of Geoworks . "
But when Phone.com attacked our ' 529 patent covering the Flex UI by filing suit in the California courts , we took the necessary steps to ensure our patent rights are asserted as quickly and certainly as possible . "
Geoworks ' suit follows one in April filed by Phone.com in U.S. District Court challenging the validity of the patent , which Geoworks says covers a method of computer programming that formats content to appear on any handheld device .
Or in other words , any wireless device hooked up to the Web .
A Sanyo spokesman did n't return phone calls .
A spokeswoman for Phone.com declined to comment on Geoworks ' complaint , but maintained that its patent is invalid .
" The lawsuit seeks to put an end to Geoworks ' repeated and unjustified accusations that virtually the entire wireless Internet industry infringes a Geoworks patent , which is directed to unrelated technology , and its threats to sue entities unwilling to succumb to its demands to take a costly and unnecessary license , " reads the opening sentence of the legal complaint filed by Phone.com in April .
Grannan concedes that in order for companies not to infringe on Geoworks ' patent , they would have to program to format content for each individual wireless device or use an antiquated Java program .
Still , he defends the comprehensive coverage of its patent .
" I firmly believe that the patent process drives tremendous innovation , " he said . "
Without patent protection , investors would n't invest hundreds and millions of dollars in companies . "
Within the next 30 days an International Trade Commission judge will evaluate the petition to determine whether it will be heard .




Protein Spray Could Heal Sores

A genomics company has discovered a way to treat large , painful sores that often plague elderly patients .
The treatment is a protein spray developed by Human Genome Sciences of Rockville , Maryland .
" In Europe and the U.S. about $ 7 billion go to wound care and dressing , not to mention additional bills in nursing care , " said William Haseltine , chairman and chief executive officer of HGS , on Wednesday .
HGS made the announcement at the Gene Sequencing and Analysis Conference in Miami .
" If we can heal these wounds more quickly we can save dramatically on the direct cost of bandages and indirectly on the cost of patient care , and dramatically impact the quality of life , " Haseltine said .
The treatment is the company 's first success in making a drug using its proprietary genetics technology .
The protein spray is called repifermin , and is made by a human gene called keratinocyte growth factor-2 .
Human Genome Sciences found the protein by screening 10,000 different genes to see which one might produce a protein that would heal skin .
HGSI
" We are taking a human protein , not a foreign chemical but a human protein , and using it as medicine , " Haseltine said .
" These are large , persistent , unhealing wounds .
They are the size of a pack of cards or larger , and last a minimum of three to six months or even for years .
They change people 's lives -- they become less mobile . "
Haseltine estimated that as many as 700,000 people in the United States alone are affected .
The company and collaborating researchers tested the spray using 94 patients in a Phase II clinical trial , the phase of FDA clinical trials that aims to show both the safety of a new drug and whether it works .
One third of the patients got a salt-water spray , the placebo , and another third got the protein spray once a day , while another group got the protein spray twice a day .
" Those who got the drug grew almost 10 times as much skin as people who did not get any , " Haseltine said .
After 15 weeks of treatment , many of the sores were nearly gone , he said .
He believes that after 20 weeks they would be healed and plans larger trials .
" Repifermin accelerates healing of chronic venous ulcers and its safety profile is excellent , " Dr. Martin Robson , professor of surgery at the University of South Florida who worked on the study , said in a statement .
" Based on these results , repifermin has strong potential as a wound healing agent and we look forward to performing additional clinical trials with repifermin in patients with venous ulcers . "
Haseltine said the protein drug might have other uses as well . "
When the drug is administered not to the wound on the surface but injected into the bloodstream , it can heal sores in the gastrointestinal tract , " Haseltine said .
This means it might work to help people with ulcerative colitis , he added .
The company said in May it planned a Phase II clinical trial of repifermin for ulcerative colitis .
Human Genome Sciences had another big success with VEGF , a gene that controls a protein involved in blood vessel growth .
VEGF has starred in one of the few possible successes in gene therapy .
It is used to help patients grow new blood vessels to restore blood flow from blocked arteries , and was reported last month to have helped regenerate dying heart tissue .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Who Wants Handheld Video ?

LOS ANGELES -- In the very near future , you 'll be able to watch sports instant replays , catch up on the nightly news , check out the waves at the local beaches , access a how-to video for repairing your sink , and proudly display pictures of your baby girl -- all on your cell phone or PDA .
Rob Tercek , president for programming for San Diego-based PacketVideo , presents this vision not as fantasy but as imminent reality .
Cellular phones are much more logical platforms than PCs or TVs to build the next generation of personal interactivity , Tercek argues .
" Theyre the most personal devices going , " Tercek said . "
You might share your PC or TV with your family .
But you 're not going to let me program my numbers onto your cellular phone .
Your mobile phone is designed to talk to .
Can be reached anywhere .
And you can receive any kind of service . "
" Our software will be in 90 percent of mobile devices over the next year and a half , " he predicted in an interview at the Digital Coast 2000 conference .
video
communication
PacketVideo , which has created software enabling the delivery of video to wireless portable devices , already has agreements with giants -- including Motorola , Texas Instruments , Intel Sanyo , Sonera , and Lucent -- to create applications for a new generation of " communicator " devices that will begin to hit the market in Asia as early as next September .
Tercek believes personal wireless video 's time is imminent .
He said one of PacketVideo 's itinerant employees views videos of her daughter on her wireless PDA when she 's on the road .
Tercek said that while that employee has to rely on wireless data transfer rates of between 14.4 and 18 kilobits per second now , the next generation of wireless networks in Europe and the United States will be about 40 kilobits -- enough to comfortably handle most consumers ' streaming needs .
Its video-player software already comes standard with new Hewlett-Packard Jornadas and Compaq iPaq handheld computers .
PacketVideo and Sanyo are currently testing a cell phone with a built-in video camera that will enable consumers to send short videos with voice-overs to other people , Tercek said .
European telecom giant Sonera is testing PacketVideo 's software in its home market in Finland .
and a PacketVideo investor
A European sports conglomerate is testing ways to send highlights of major games to executives ' portable devices .
AtomFilms , an Internet film site , is producing short film content for PacketVideo 's platform .
Of course , it 's one thing to demonstrate something technologically , and another to make it a consumer reality .
Cable television took years to emerge , and the much anticipated video phones have yet to become widespread .
" I have no doubt that wireless video has a future , " said Mark Politi , a Beverly Hills-based entrepreneur who runs several streaming media sites . "
But it will n't fully take off until you have wireless broadband , and that 's a couple of years off . "
The problem with video phones , he maintains , was that people did n't have any incentive to upgrade to them .
" For most people , their home phones work just fine , " Politi said . "
They have their computers and their televisions to provide video .
Today , they can get webcams for their computers .
They are n't going to rush out and buy video phones for their homes . "
Tercek explained that the mobile environment is different .
Consumers are already used to replacing their cell phones every 12 or 18 months as new technologies come out .
He said they 'll switch to new communicators -- devices with both cell phone and PDA functionality -- now being developed by companies like Motorola and Qualcomm .
MOT
QCOM
Also , being able to create and share video from the road is a lot more compelling than doing it from home .
" This idea of ' nobody will use video phones because they do n't want people to see them in their hair curlers ' is totally antiquated , " Tercek said . "
It 's the outside world that 's exciting .
Imagine going to the Eiffel Tower and saying , ' Mom , I 'm at the Eiffel Tower now , take a look !
' That 's what 's really exciting . "




Could MacOS X Be ' Holy Grail ' ?

Apple has released the first test version of MacOS X to the general public , and those who have seen it say it 's speedy , stable , and generally spiffy .
MacOS X , the long-awaited successor to the venerated Macintosh operating system , is the culmination of nearly a decade of work -- a total rewrite of the Mac OS from the ground up that can still run Mac applications from the past .
" I am -- no bullshit -- very , very excited , " gushed Andrew Stone of Stone Design , a Mac OS X software developer . "
This is the Holy Grail . "
" It 's beautiful , it 's fast , and it does n't crash , " said William Shipley , president of the Omni Group , another Mac OS X software publisher . "
Why would anyone not switch ? "
Graeme Devine , a designer at Id Software , which makes Doom and Quake , said that overall , Mac OS X is a stronger operating system than Linux or Windows NT .
" The tools for development are extremely good , extremely finished , " Devine said . "
Linux and NT also have great tools and there are other advantages , but the combination of a great server and the development tools make Mac OS X better than the other platforms . "
Mac OS X was seeded earlier this year among Apple 's software developers .
Although non-disclosure agreements limit what they can say about the new operating system , some developers and beta testers , who asked to remain anonymous , said the first public beta release was fairly complete , though there were still some major holes .
For example , Palm users will not be able to synchronize their handhelds , Windows networks can n't be browsed , and OS X is n't compatible with Airport , Apple 's wireless networking product .
" For a company so hot for wireless networking , I think that 's bad , " said one tester , who asked not to be identified .
There are also some minor bugs and performance problems , testers said .
For example , the Classic application environment , the part that runs " classic " Mac software , is slow to launch , said one tester , though another said it was " fantastic and incredibly robust . "
" I suspect some classic Mac apps will not run correctly in the Classic compatibility environment , particularly applications that expect direct access to the hardware , " said John Siracusa , a programmer who has written detailed technical articles on earlier releases of Mac OS X for Ars Technica . "
This is to be expected and is the price of progress , not necessarily a fatal flaw . "
Overall the system should run well on even the earliest iMacs , testers said .
Mac OS X is officially compatible with the iMac onwards , though it can be tweaked to work on older Power Macs , testers said .
" It is good enough to use on your desktop on a primary basis , " said Id 's Devine . "
I think most people will absolutely love it , but some people will absolutely hate it . "
Devine cautioned that although Mac OS X runs older Mac software , it is n't really a bone fide platform until a lot more software is available to run on it .
For example , even basic utilities like popular file expanders are not yet available , he said .
" There 's still a lot of work to do , " Devine said .




Apple Spruces Up IBooks

Apple 's CEO Steve Jobs on Wednesday unveiled two new iBook portables and the first public version of a highly anticipated operating system upgrade at Apple Expo in Paris .
Apple 's new iBook and iBook Special Edition come in new colors and add FireWire ports for connecting high speed peripherals .
The US$ 1,799 iBook Special Edition , which also features a DVD drive , is available in Graphite and Key Lime ; while the standard $ 1,499 iBook comes in Indigo and Key Lime .
Both also include Version 2.0 of Apple 's iMovie video-editing software .
Meanwhile , Jobs said the public beta of Mac OS X can be had on CD from Apple 's online store at a cost of $ 30 .
AAPL
Available in English , French and German , the beta version expires on May 15 , 2001 , when beta testers must buy and install the final version of the OS , which Jobs said is on schedule .
Jobs also announced a new ATI Technologies ' Radeon graphics card for the G4 series of Macs , including the new Cube , as a $ 100 option .




Looking into the Digital Future

EMERYVILLE , California -- Mayor Jerry Brown , CEO of MP3 Michael Robertson , and rap artist Chuck D all have something in common : They 're visionaries and they want to shape the future .
The unusual combination came together this weekend in the form of keynote speakers at MB5 , the Festival for New Media Visionaries -- held at Ex'presson , The Center for New Media in Emeryville , where all the heavies in the digital entertainment business gathered to expound on theories that surround their world .
" All of them have visions and concerns beyond making a lot of money .
Not only are they visionaries but they 're also powerful actors in their own right and will be influential in shaping the future as it unfolds over the next five to ten years , " executive producer Andrew Keen said .
Intellectual property rights , the changing face of the star system , and promotion and distribution were the words most frequently heard .
The burning question Jerry Brown , mayor of Oakland , had was when he would be able to " click on school . "
Robertson wanted to know when the music industry is going to " abra la puerta " and Chuck D wanted to know , well , when the five major music labels are going to be cut down to size .
Mayor Jerry Brown said he knows the future when he sees it -- " It 's happening first in media entertainment .
I want to know when school is going to be on the Internet .
When can I click on school ?
When Universal Music Group is worried about somebody taking their record , what 's Harvard going to do when somebody clicks on Harvard ? "
Brown said he finds the issue of intellectual property rights paradoxical .
" The most libertarian anti-government people depend for their money on a government power to jail those who take their property , which is absolutely worthless without the government to punish those who take it with out permission .
This trademark and copyright only works with a power of the police , the ... the state .
Ironically , it 's not free trade - it 's protectionism . "
Intellectual property rights and protectionism are something MP3 CEO Michael Robertson knows something about .
In the wake of a federal ruling , which found MP3 in violation of copyright laws , Robertson said that his vision is to " abra la puerta . "
" I want to open the door and revolutionize the way we access and absorb music . "
Part of Robertson 's vision -- to organize personal music collections into one space in whatever combination you choose with the freedom to access it from where ever you want -- is slowly becoming a reality .
Now that MP3 has settled out of court with four of the five big record companies , he has turned his attention to DRM , digital rights management .
Robertson believes it 's the key to opening up the digital entertainment industry .
" One reason the industry has stumbled so mightily is because of client-based security .
If there 's one thing the Internet has done it 's empowered the individual . "
Robertson believes digital rights management should take place in stores where music is purchased , not in the hands of music executives , who , he said , have proposed embedding DRM tracking devices in stereos , cell phone , and car stereo systems to prevent illegal downloading of music .
" It 's crazy and it would cost a ridiculous amount of money . "
And the outspoken Chuck D , rap singer and staunch supporter of digital media , said the money record companies spend trying to hold back the tide of downloadable distribution and file sharing is ridiculous .
" If you want to look at the MP3 and the Napster ruling with Universal Music Group trying to come on the onslaught to control the avenues of content distribution I 'd say theyre fighting a losing battle .
Try to stop file sharing .
It 's like trying to stop the rain and I call someone who tries to do that crazy . "
" The genie is out of the bottle , as a matter of fact , the bottle is shattered into a million pieces . "




Prisoners Forced to Give DNA

State inmates who refuse to give blood for DNA sampling now face solitary confinement .
The new rule grew out of a 1999 law expanding the number of felons required to provide a sample for a state DNA database .
The database is used to link convicts to past and future crimes .
DNA samples have been taken from about 26,000 of the 70,000 convicts in state prisons , Department of Correctional Services spokesman James Flateau said .
Two inmates have resisted . "
We held them down and we took it , " Flateau said .
Inmates in solitary confinement , known as " the box , " are locked in small cells for virtually the entire day .
Prisoners Legal Services director Thomas Terrizzi said he believes solitary confinement is already overused .
Since 1994 , New York has required DNA samples from people convicted of the most violent felonies such as murder , rape and assault .
Last year 's law added people convicted of gang assault , attempted murder , sodomy , witness intimidation or criminal use of a firearm .




Selling Yourself Bit by Bit

Right at this moment , some marketing fat cat is selling your demographic data -- maybe your shoe size , your favorite color , or how you like your eggs cooked -- and you 're not seeing a penny of the profits .
But according to Jeff Oriecuia , a spokesman for a new company called Zimtu , you may soon be able to get some of that green .
Zimtu is developing software that foils the attempts of e-commerce companies from collecting data on you .
Such privacy software , which uses proxy servers and cookie-monitoring applications to keep your info from getting to the marketers , is n't new .
But Zimtu has added a twist : You can select which personal information you want released to marketers , and Zimtu will sell that data .
The company will give you half of what it makes on the deal .
" Right now people collect information without you knowing it , " Oriecuia said . "
When people begin to understand that this information is actually worth money , they 'll realize that it should n't be given away for free . "
How much is your data worth ?
Oriecuia said he could n't give an exact amount because the company 's product is still at the beta stage .
He estimated that a person who makes all his data available could make up to " hundreds of dollars " per month .
But Jason Catlett of the privacy advocacy firm Junkbusters said he finds it hard to believe that a company like Zimtu could actually make much money from selling personal data , as a lot of personal information is freely gathered by marketers today .
" It 's a little like trying to sell online music , " Catlett said . "
Why would companies pay for it when they can get it for free ? "
Catlett added that " marketers already have an enormous amount of personal information , gathered without users ' consent or knowledge . "
Oriecuia acknowledged that Zimtu 's biggest competitors could be companies that already gather information about individuals .
After all , a company like Amazon , which learns your preferences as you search its site or make purchases , obviously is n't going to look too kindly at a firm that makes it pay for data .
" In the beginning it 'll be a bit frustrating , " Oriecuia said , explaining that giants like Amazon could see Zimtu as a wrench in their data-collection machines .
But Oriecuia said that after a critical mass of users sign on to Zimtu , the big companies will realize that they have no choice but to buy data from the company .
Representatives at Amazon did not return calls seeking comment .
Such intermediary ventures as Zimtu , which give you something in return for you giving something up , are not new .
in this case , your privacy
So-called pay-to-surf sites like AllAdvantage , which give consumers money if they agree to keep an ad banner on their desktop , have been around for quite some time .
But many of these companies have run into financial difficulties , not to mention problems with Web cheats .
Oriecuia thinks that Zimtu can overcome such problems and reach its critical mass of users through its " viral marketing campaign . "
He means that Zimtu is incorporating its privacy software into an instant messaging program ; he hopes that the chatter will take off , and with it , the company 's list of registered users .
It 's the " instant messenger that protects your privacy and makes you money , " he said .




Could MacOS X Be ' Holy Grail ' ?

The Omni Group 's Shipley said momentum is already gathering among developers , and he 's been heartened to see a host of smaller shareware aps being converted in the last few months .
" It means the major players should n't have much trouble coming over either , " he said .
Adobe , Microsoft , Intuit , Palm , and other big developers have already released Mac OS X aps , or have promised to do so shortly .
All the developers said the most exciting part of Mac OS X is the new software development environment , called Cocoa , that will lead to a new generation of Mac software in a year or two .
Shipley said the programming environment will usher in a " second renaissance " for the Mac .
" The best is yet to come , " he said . "
We 're going to see a second renaissance on the Mac .
" Right now it 's hard to write software , you need a huge team .
There 's no such thing as a mom-and-pop shop anymore writing commercial applications , " Shipley said . "
Cocoa is going to bring back the early days of computing when three guys in a garage can make software that will ship to millions without having a big company like Microsoft or Adobe behind them .
" It will allow two or three programmers working in a garage to keep up with 100 programmers working at Microsoft because Cocoa is such a great foundation -- it 's so powerful , " he added .
Cocoa is an object-oriented programming environment that allows programmers to create software by combining chunks of code , or modules .
Stone compared coding in Cocoa to shopping .
" You can now develop with high-level modules of code , " he said . "
It 's like a department store , you go in and shop , you get a piece from the networking department , and the Windows department , and stick these things together . "
Stone said Cocoa also automatically adds support for multiple processors , which he said is perhaps the most important feature of Mac OS X as Apple continues to release machines with more than one CPU .
" Apple has done most of the work under the hood , " Stone said . "
You do n't have to know anything about multiprocessing .
You now have something that takes advantage of that hardware and that is what is so mind-numbingly wonderful about X.
" I 've been at this a long , long time and I 've never seen anything like this in my life , " he said . "
It 's mind-boggling . "
Meanwhile , Microsoft on Thursday will release its latest operating system for consumers , the Windows Millennium Edition .
More of an update to Windows 98 than a new OS , a basic install of ME nearly doubles the disk space required for Windows 98 -- between 500 to 600 MB .
New features include the ability to protect and restore the system folder should something go wrong .
Asked to compare Mac OS X with Windows ME , Stone said it would be " like comparing Apples to ... er , something inedible . "
" They keep throwing more girth at this monolithic monster , " he said . "
Mac OS X is a very clean rewrite with a future in it . "




Windows ME Bugged by Flaw

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Microsoft 's brand-new operating system , Windows ME already has one confirmed security bug .
The vulnerability allows malicious users to remotely shut down or force a reboot if the computer is running the WebTV for Windows application .
Andrew Griffiths of Australia detailed the vulnerability in a posting at Bugtraq , a bug reporting service of Security Focus .
Griffiths originally reported the problem with the WebTV for Windows program on machines that are running Windows 98 , the predecessor to Windows ME .
Griffiths stated in his bugtraq post that he notified Microsoft about the WebTV vulnerability on Aug. 13 , but had not received a response from Microsoft as of Wednesday .
But a Microsoft spokeperson said that its security department has been communicating with Griffiths .
Ben Greenbaum of SecurityFocus , the site that hosts BugTraq , said that after further research he discovered that the WebTV for Windows bug is also exploitable in machines running Windows ME , the consumer operating system released by Microsoft Thursday .
MSFT
Greenbaum said that the bug allows denial-of-service attacks to be transmitted by sending a specific kind of data to specific ports on the target machine .
UDP packets
Denial-of-service attacks are when one computer sends a flood of data to another over the Internet , forcing the receiving system to slow or shut down .
Depending on the size of the data packet sent during an attack exploiting this Windows vulnerability , the attacker could cause programs to freeze up , make the target computer crash , or force it to reboot .
Andrew Antipass , a network technician , verified the existence of the hole for Wired News , and was able to force two remote machines running Windows ME to lock up and reboot .
" I really hate holes like this because attacks are the easiest types of attacks to perpetuate , " said Antipass .
denial-of-service
" DoS attacks require little skill or knowledge on the part of the attacker , so elite hackers are n't interested in them .
The people who are ' DoSing ' are idiots with a lot of time on their hands , and no hacking ethics , which is why any DoS hole is very dangerous . "
Greenbaum adds that the hole also makes it easy for a cracker to maintain an attack over an extended period of time , rendering the target system effectively unusable until it has been reconfigured offline , or until the cracker chooses to end the attack .
" Not only is this a very effective and simple denial-of-service attack , but there are numerous other attack methods that require a reboot of the target machine , and this is a simple and quick way to achieve that , " said Greenbaum .
bug
The Microsoft Security Response Center confirmed that they received a report concerning " a possible vulnerability " involving WebTV for Windows .
" The Microsoft Security Response Center is thoroughly investigating this issue , as we do with every report we receive concerning security vulnerabilities affecting Microsoft products .
Microsoft is moving forward with the investigation with all due speed in order to ascertain how best to serve Microsoft 's customers , " said a Microsoft spokesperson .
WebTV for Windows allows users to view broadcast and cable television on their computer desktop , and also offers interactive television content .




Home Networking 's Bitter Brawl

Listening to a debate on the best wireless communication standard for home networks is like combining the World Wrestling Federation with the National Hot Rod Association : Both sides hurl insults at each other while boasting how fast they are .
Plus , it is n't clear who 's going to win .
The Federal Communications Commission 's recent decision to grant more bandwidth to one side of the ring -- the Home Radio Frequency Working Group , which includes Proxim , Motorola and Siemens -- only made for an uglier matchup that still is n't close to being decided .
Now that Home Radio Frequency Working Group 's bandwidth has been quintupled from 1 MHz to 5 MHz , it can deliver home services at the same rate as its opponents who create " Wi-Fi " products that support another standard -- 802.11b .
By increasing the bandwidth , the HomeRF group will be able to increase the delivery of its services from 1.6 megabits per second to over 10 Mbs , matching Wi-Fi 's speed .
Mbs
In other words , the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance , which includes members such as Apple , Lucent Technologies and 3Com , can no longer say HomeRF is inferior because it 's slower .
Then again , a WECA spokesman has challenged the HomeRF group to a " drag race . "
The arguments leading up to the FCC 's ruling two weeks ago were " a pretty nasty battle , " said IDC research analyst Schelley Olhava . "
I heard people compare it to a religious war .
" We thought some of the issues would clear up with the FCC ruling , " Olhava added , " but the picture is really cloudy now . "
Both the 802.11b and HomeRF standards allow consumers to link multiple home computers and laptops together with a single wireless Internet connection .
The biggest difference between the standards lies in how data is transmitted .
HomeRF relies on a frequency-hopping system where signals " hop " around a channel to send packets of data .
The 802.11b system uses direct sequence -- or a fat channel -- to input larger amounts of data .
" methodology does n't work well for voice calls , " said Ben Manny , chairman of the Home Radio Frequency Working Group . "
Wi-Fi 's
HomeRF has a different method for voice calls , where there is a circuit set up between two radios . "
WECA grudgingly admits HomeRF has the upper hand with the quality of voice calls .
But it still is n't convinced a frequency-hopping system can transmit data faster than direct sequence .
" What we 'd like to see is a drag race , " said WECA spokesman Brian Grimm . "
We do n't want it to be just us saying .
' we 're faster '
We 'd like to see testing . "




Two Fake Brains Better Than One

A few weeks ago , computer scientist Chris McKinstry announced a plan to harness the brain power of Internet users to fuel an artificially intelligent thinking machine .
Web surfers flocked to his Mindpixel Digital Mind Modeling Project website , and McKinstry 's database of mindpixels -- " one-bit " pieces of knowledge -- swelled so quickly that his system became temporarily overloaded .
But even though AI laymen took to McKinstry 's decentralized , profit-sharing model of artificial intelligence , many in the academic AI community balked at his plans .
anyone who enters data gets a share in the company
Now , it seems that the academy is changing its tune , as no less venerable an institution than MIT 's Media Lab has decided to collaborate with McKinstry .
" We think that the future of AI is to get the public involved , " said Push Singh , an MIT graduate student in AI who runs a Media Lab project called OpenMind .
Singh said that the public involvement that McKinstry has been able to spur so far -- Mindpixel already has almost 20,000 registered users -- would be an asset to OpenMind .
Like Mindpixel , OpenMind is an AI machine that learns from user input .
At the OpenMind website , users are presented with a series of stimuli -- photographs , phrases , or diagrams .
Singh said that the computer learns " common sense " from users ' aggregate response to a certain stimulus .
For example , if the computer shows you a picture of a family at a picnic , you might type in , " Families like to spend time together . "
Someone else might write , " Picnics are fun when the weather permits . "
And yet another person could say , " I hope they did n't forget the Grey Poupon ! "
With enough such responses , some clearly more valuable than others , Singh said that the computer will learn a kind of common sense about families or picnics or mustard , and how they relate to each other .
And with a little common sense , OpenMind will be able to at least approximate humanness , Sing said .
But when Singh heard about McKinstry 's project , and saw that it had already amassed a database of more than 175,000 mindpixels , he thought that OpenMind would benefit from a collaboration with it .
According to both Singh and McKinstry , the OpenMind and the Mindpixel projects will tie their databases together " at the back end . "
This means that any user data entered into either of the projects will be accessible by the other .
Each party emerges richer from the merger .
OpenMind will almost instantly have a huge knowledge database , and McKinstry 's project will be blessed with academic legitimacy .
" It 's nice to see some recognition from the academic AI community , " McKinstry said from his home in Chile , where he operates the world 's largest optical telescope . "
What MIT brings to this is the prestige of the institution . "
Despite their collaboration , McKinstry and Singh each had no problem saying that the other 's project is , ultimately , a lost cause .
Indeed , just last week , Singh said that he did n't think that McKinstry was " embracing the open-source movement , " since his project is commercial .
After speaking to McKinstry extensively over the weekend , Singh had changed his opinion a bit , saying that " Chris is a good guy " and that he appreciates McKinstry 's enthusiasm .
But Singh said that he still did n't think that McKinstry 's " neural network " of one-bit facts would result in AI .
He added that his project was superior to McKinstry 's because it not only elicits facts from users , but also " the justifications for those facts . "
McKinstry , for his part , was equally critical of Singh 's project .
" reminds me of where I was with this project six years ago , " he said a bit dismissively , explaining that OpenMind lacked any way to ensure the " integrity " of the data users entered into the system .
OpenMind
" Anyone can put in anything , and it is n't subject to validation , " he said .
McKinstry 's project , by contrast , requires users to " validate " the data entered in by other users .
Despite their differences , though , both scientists said that they thought the other 's heart was in the right place .
And neither doubted that each project -- and , if the machines come alive , mankind itself -- would benefit from this collaboration , this true meeting of databases .




Sharing the Streaming Burden

TEL AVIV , Israel -- Remember seeing the solar eclipse live on the Web ?
Probably not , since the overloaded servers buckled under the demand .
Streaming company Vtrails has peer-to-peer technology to solve the problem of television-quality broadcasting over the Internet , but it relies heavily on the kindness of strangers .
Vtrails of Herzeliya , Israel , has developed technology called Full Duplex Packet Cascading for audio- and video-streaming content providers who want to multicast , say , Madonna live in concert to millions .
FDPC
" the server has to send the same content to each user individually .
Right now
This consumes a lot of resources , " says Vtrails CTO Nezer Zaidenberg . "
I do n't know of any online event that was actually viewed by millions , as opposed to television .
No one is able to serve millions on the Internet . "
Instead of the server having to feed content to each individual , FDPC creates a hierarchical structure on the fly , with surfers arranged in layers or tiers .
Only the top tier of users gets content straight from the original site .
Everyone else gets this content replicated in real time by a user on the tier above and passed on .
This peer-to-peer interaction is created through an FDPC server , which sits between the original content server and the Internet .
The replication is performed using a client application that users download to their machines .
The tree of users is optimized using a version of an algorithm called the Minimum Spanning Tree Algorithm .
" The algorithm checks the location of the client and the connection speed , " Zaidenberg says . "
We make sure you get a replicate from somewhere near you , the same ISP or network group . "
The tree is arranged so that those with faster connections are on top , feeding the slower surfers .
This concept raises several questions .
What happens if the person responsible for replicating for you decides they 've had enough of Madonna ? "
If there is a disconnection , the tree rebuilds itself , " Zaidenberg says .
Another issue is that FDPC makes use of surfers ' own CPU power to actually replicate the content .
This is the kind of peer-to-peer networking -- where power from all the computers connected to the network is being used rather than just the servers -- that Napster and Gnutella employ and that the CTO of Intel 's architecture group , Patrick Gelsinger , recently called the " next era " in computing .
However , with FDPC there is one basic difference : " If you look at Napster or Gnutella , there was strong , compelling consumer need .
If you put Napster on your machine , you had access to other users ' files , " says Jay Marathe , head of consulting at Durlacher Research in London . "
This case , it is more based on altruism .
There is no benefit to you to run it , it is of benefit to other users . "




ID Them By the Way They Walk

GAITHERSBURG , Maryland -- Forget voice print matching and face recognition : Future technology could identify someone by the way they walk .
Pattern-recognition software soon will be able to analyze the stride of a person , University of Maryland professor Larry Davis said Thursday at the Biometric Consortium 2000 Conference co-sponsored by the National Security Agency .
Davis said his research group has created a prototype that can filter out noise from a video image and recognize whether a person is walking past the camera , even in windy or cloudy conditions .
" We can now detect a person -- any person -- walking in field of view outdoors with a moving camera , " Davis told about 350 people who showed up at the two-day event also sponsored by the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the U.S. Army .
Davis added that Daimler-Benz is planning to use the technology to alert drivers to potential collisions .
The next step : Distinguishing one person 's gait from another 's , something Davis said his group will be able to do reliably enough in the future to aid in " surveillance situations , " even when someone 's face is not visible .
By isolating what he called a " signature of human motion , " the technology could be used to perform bulk surveillance in public areas , assuming that information about who walks in what way is on file .
Other new techniques could also be used by law enforcement agencies .
Visionics ' FaceIt system works by isolating human faces in still pictures and then comparing them to photos in a database containing a specific population , such as licensed drivers , known criminals or missing children .
The system then ranks each photo in the database by likelihood that the two images , when paired together , represent the same person .
Visionics Vice President Paul Griffin said the system is currently being used by the state of Virginia to search for duplicate state ID cards and driver 's licenses .
He said that at least two other states are testing the technology for their own use .
ANSER , a government-funded research institute , uses FaceIt as part of their project to locate missing children on the Internet .
ANSER spokesperson Joe Iseman said the algorithms are still being trained to accommodate for factors such as aging , image resolution and lighting variances in different photos .
" But when you incorporate known variables such as age , hair color , race , and gender into the search criteria , the chance of getting a match is very high , " Iseman said .




Calif.
Net Tax Bill a Job Cutter ?

WASHINGTON -- A tax bill awaiting the signature of California Gov. Gray Davis will raise money but could cost thousands of jobs .
An economic model used by a San Francisco nonprofit group predicts that levying sales taxes on dot-com affiliates of traditional retail firms will result in 2,100 jobs lost next year .
Davis has until Sept. 30 to sign or veto the bill , AB 2412 .
But the 25-page Pacific Research Institute study , scheduled to be released later this week , could make an even weightier argument against Internet taxes .
The report by the free-market think tank says that if online sales are taxed more broadly than the bill permits -- which state governments argue should happen -- over 100,000 jobs would disappear in California by 2002 .
" This type of analysis is really important since it can reveal in a very fact-based way what the impact of government policies are , " says Naomi Lopez Bauman , a PRI policy analyst . "
A lot of times , people assume that a small tax is a small tax , and they do n't realize it has real consequences for real people . "
The PRI study uses federal government numbers to calculate the effects of new laws , and recommends no new taxes because " even under the highest Internet sales projections , taxing the Internet will generate less than one-half percent of the state 's total tax revenue . "
Congress voted in 1998 for a three-year moratorium on Internet sales taxes , and that expires in October 2001 .
A federal advisory panel failed to reach a consensus on what to do next , and Congress is considering whether to extend the moratorium .
A spokeswoman for the National Association of Counties , which supports Net taxes , responded to a summary of the study by stressing that states rely on sales taxes for vital services , such as those provided by hospitals .
" You have to understand that county services are losing out on millions of dollars in funding that would come about as a result of Internet taxes , " said NAC spokeswoman Liz Galewski .
The impasse in Washington was enough to prompt two California state legislators -- Democrats Carole Migden and Dion Aroner -- to introduce a bill that would force retailers with physical storefronts in the state to collect the 7.25 percent sales tax on online sales .
Foes of increased taxes opposed the measure .
Dean Andal , the elected head of a state tax board , said in a 10-page letter in June that the bill imposes an unnecessary tax hike and would " harm California 's business environment and reputation . "
California currently is enjoying a record budget surplus .
For the computer model used in the study , PRI paid $ 25,000 to the Beacon Hill Institute at Suffolk University in Boston .
Beacon Hill President David Tuerck developed the State Tax Analysis Modeling Program in 1994 to analyze an unsuccessful ballot initiative that would have imposed a graduated income tax in Massachusetts .




' Star ' Gazing Goes Mobile

On Wednesday night , Kris Konno saw a woman who looked exactly like comedian Sandra Bernhard walking along Sixth Avenue in New York .
Under normal circumstances , this would be an observation that Konno , a skilled celebrity spotter , would have kept to herself , not being the sort of person who likes to accost famous people in the middle of the street .
It just so happened , however , that Konno had a mobile phone with her , equipped with an application for sending and receiving instant messages .
She typed in a quick note about the Bernhard sighting and within a few seconds bleeped the message to 160 members of New York Celebrity Sightings , a wireless-messaging group that Konno started for just such special occasions .
" I 'm the type of person that when I 'm walking down the street , I just always notice celebrities , " said Konno , head of product development for wireless messaging startup Upoc Inc. , a name that stands for " universal point of contact . "
She launched the group as a way to connect with others who share her celebrity-spotting fascination .
New York Celebrity Sightings , which was introduced to beta users in June , is one of several groups that use Upoc 's platform to send instant text messages to cell phones and pagers .
Other offerings range from standard fare like restaurant reviews and movie ratings to more offbeat topics -- like making fun of bad haircuts .
Members who sign up for the service get to send messages of up to 80 characters on relevant topics .
When a new missive is sent , they get a beep on their mobile phone or PDA indicating that a new text message has been received .
Thus far , celebrity sightings is used by nearly 10 percent of Upoc 's 2,000 members , making it the most popular site on the network .
The company 's CEO , Gordon Gould , attributes the group 's appeal to the universal craving among young wireless users for an easy way to look cool .
" It 's very obvious and apparent to people what the rules are , " he said . "
If I see a celebrity -- bang !
-- I send a message .
That 's really easy .
All of a sudden I 'm culturally relevant . "




Small Payloads , Quick Payoffs

When most people think rockets , they think of the kind that catapult shuttles and satellites into their 17,500-mph orbits .
The CATS rockets are tiny things -- like those little Estes model rockets kids still play with , only powerful enough to keep going until they 're out of sight .
So what are they good for ?
Besides affording a chance to watch a bunch of hard-core geeks pursuing space dreams and chasing after prize money that CATS -- which wants to spur development of ultra-low-cost launch vehicles -- is offering ?
And what does " low-cost " actually mean ?
The immediate target market is not the heavy-lift launch industry , which takes telecommunications satellites and other expensive hardware into orbit .
Rather , the aim is to create alternatives for both academic and commercial researchers whose only way into space now is usually aboard NASA-launched sounding rockets .
These mini-missiles carry payloads , ranging between 10 and several hundred kilograms , on space trips that last from 5 to 15 minutes .
That does n't sound like much , but such flights give astronomers and other researchers a chance to glance into the cosmos from beyond the foggy window of Earth 's atmosphere and afford scientists who need to conduct experiments in a weightless environment some precious moments of microgravity .
NASA 's sounding-rocket missions can cost as much as $ 5 million -- at least $ 200,000 to $ 300,000 for each of the small payloads each rocket can boost into space -- and the waiting list to get on a flight can stretch to about three years .
CATS contestants say they can improve on both sides of the equation .
John Marchel Powell of J.P. Aerospace , which has scheduled a prize launch from Black Rock on October 7 , is confident that it can offer launches to an altitude of 80 miles for $ 50,000 a shot and can do it without the long waits facing NASA customers .
" The one thing we really want to be is on-demand , " Powell says . "
You do n't ever want to wait for a launch if you have a mission that 's ready to go . "
Randa Milliron of Mojave , California 's Interorbital Systems , which plans a prize attempt from a fishing trawler in the Pacific 150 miles west of Vandenberg Air Force Base , said her firm already has customers lined up for its Tachyon sounding rockets .
Like J.P. Aerospace , Interorbital sees sounding rockets as just the beginning .
Powell envisions his company launching small satellites into orbit within five years .
Milliron says her company 's goal is to develop vehicles that will carry people first into orbit , then to other planets .
She promises the new vehicles and full-on orbital versions to follow " will rip the bottom out of the current price structure " for space launches .
Powell , Milliron , and other developers believe they can cut prices because their costs have been so low .
The traditional recipe for making a launch system in the United States calls for big military contractors , thousands of aerospace workers and piles of taxpayer money .
A case in point : the X-33 , a scale-model prototype for a reusable rocket envisioned as a replacement for the space shuttle .
Through the end of last year , Lockheed-Martin spent $ 900 million on the project , which has never flowed because of problems with its fuel tanks .
By radical contrast , Powell estimates J.P. Aerospace has spent $ 70,000 in its seven-year trajectory .
Milliron says Interorbital , which has produced four functioning rocket-engine designs , has spent about $ 30,000 a year since launching four years ago .
Mike Colburn of Hollister , California 's SORAC project says his team has spent $ 60,000 -- half cash , half donated materials -- since 1993 .
" If we had $ 5 million , maybe it would be a no-brainer , " Powell muses . "
We could hire a top machine shop and top rocket people .
But we would n't have innovated as much . "




Getting Out the Parody Vote

SEATTLE -- Laughing at political candidates can turn out to be serious business .
Just ask Zack Exley .
His gwbush.com site , probably the best known parody of George W. Bush 's official campaign website , is now making money from banner ads and merchandise .
But his commercial success is only part of the story , according to Barbara Warnick , a communications professor at the University of Washington who has been studying parody websites in this year 's presidential campaign .
She believes parody sites -- of which there are many -- could actually be influencing voters .
" While many readers could freely sample site content and be entertained , they were likely to be persuaded , " Warnick says in an as-yet-unpublished study .
also
Warnick found that as parody sites become more sophisticated , they are also becoming more influential , especially because almost a quarter of Internet users say they receive at least some of their information about the candidates online .
It 's still unclear whether the sophistication of the sites will result in fooling a segment of the voting population .
" The people who are most likely to be affected by parody sites are the ones whose opinions about the candidates are the least well-formed , " said Jan P. Vermeer , a political science professor at Nebraska Wesleyan University .
Exley 's site , gwbush.com , is quite close in tone to the official georgewbush.com site , sounding so realistic that it offers a false sense of credibility .
Then again , the Bush campaign did n't do itself any favors by drawing attention to the site .
The campaign filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission , which decided there were too many other , serious matters to bother with it .
But the notoriety attending the Bush campaign 's humorless reaction propelled Exley 's site , and others like it , to national prominence .
A number of the websites Warnick studied are not only wickedly funny , but technically advanced as well , keeping pace with the official sites they 're satirizing .




Warwick : Cyborg or Media Doll ?

Peddling his own brand of pessimistic futurism that predicts humanity 's imminent enslavement to intelligent machines , Kevin Warwick is one of the world 's most famous living scientists .
A professor of cybernetics at Reading University , he 's also considered an expert in robotics , artificial intelligence , and neuroscience , and is a regular fixture on British TV and in newspapers and magazines around the globe .
He 's also become a lightning rod for criticism .
In February , a group of British technology journalists launched Kevin Warwick Watch , a site devoted to making fun of Warwick 's " media junkie " reputation by tracking his movements across the media landscape .
The Register http://www.theregister.co.uk/ , a British technology news site , has also run a series of articles critical of Warwick .
" He 's one of the most publicly recognized robotocists but his work does n't really back it up , " said technology journalist Dave Green , who helped launch Kevin Warwick Watch . "
The man is a total media junkie . "
Last year Warwick made a huge splash by declaring himself the world 's first cyborg after a surgeon implanted a radio transmitter under his skin .
In February , he was featured on the cover of Wired magazine for a story about a new chip implant that may allow him , among other things , to have trans-Atlantic cybersex with his wife .
More recently , Warwick generated headlines when his robot cat was barred from British Airways .
He also claimed that television can improve students ' test grades , that cyberdrugs will soon be downloadable from the Internet , and that humans could shortly become remote-controlled .
see also the Observer 's version
His fame has earned him awards , honorary degrees , and most recently , an opportunity to present this year 's prestigious Royal Institute Christmas Lectures , which are broadcast to schools around the United Kingdom .
But as Warwick 's star has risen , so has the level of criticism .
Kevin Warwick Watch asks correspondents to " scan the world 's media for sightings of this historic figure , and build up a comprehensive picture of his ' activities .
' "
" His predictions that robots will take over the world in the next 10 years are combined with really ineffectual demonstrations of robots ' power , " Green said . "
That 's the contradiction that makes Kevin so appealing to us .
His predictions are so extraordinary but his demonstrations are so everyday . "
As an example , Green cited a marathon-running robot whose infrared detectors were supposed to lock onto Warwick as he jogged but instead focused on the sun , causing the robot to run itself into the ground .
Green also gets a kick out of Warwick 's gloomy predictions , which he said appear to be gleaned from " cheap paperbacks and movies . "
The site , Green said , is " an extraordinary catalog of doomsaying . "
" It 's like he stayed up too late with some friends , smoking something and watching the Terminator , and came to the conclusion that , ' Yeah , my God , this really could happen .
'
" Put forward in fiction , these ideas can be quite interesting , but to see these ideas put forward by someone who 's supposed to be a serious theorist ...
. "




TV Commercials Get Personal

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- The " idiot box " that you rely upon to pump mindless entertainment into your home now has a brain that will enable it to feed you very specific , very personalized ... advertising .
In his keynote Wednesday at the ETV world trade show , Kim LeMasters , ReplayTV 's CEO , said that Personal Television Devices -- more commonly known in the real world as digital video recorders -- will soon outsell VCRs and DVD players .
LeMasters also said that digital video recorders will soon outpace DVD players and VCRs in performance and features , including the ability to deliver personalized ads .
" We let you have full control over the TV , " LeMasters said , comparing watching TV with a PTD to the Web surfing experience .
He then qualified that statement by noting that viewers do n't have an " emotional connection , " to the Web , but do to their TVs , which is why people are more apt to feel safe buying products that they have seen advertised on TV .
Perhaps noting the skepticism that greeted that remark from the mostly techie crowd , LeMasters rolled out the statistics : A typical household watches seven hours of TV per day and has more TVs than telephones .
As for the love affair with PTDs , LeMasters , numbers culled in research by his company suggest it 's almost love at first sight .
Only 10 percent of customers rated TV watching as " very appealing " before buying their digital video recorders , LeMasters said .
Afterward , 74 percent changed their minds and suddenly felt that TV was big fun .
One wonders how many hours they are now spending in front of the tube .
The first thing most users do when they begin to use Personal TV is to delete all the commercials from their favorite shows , noted LeMasters , who predicted that advertising agencies are clever enough to figure out ways around this issue .
LeMasters also claimed that RePlayTV 's research indicates people will happily record and then watch commercials many times if those commercials appeal to them .
This comment was also greeted with some skepticism , although a few people in the back of the room did do a quiet rendition of the ubiquitous beer commercial : " Whasup , whasssssup , wah-sa-bi , whas-uuuup . "




Do You Still Need a Library Card ?

It used to be that students would wander dusty library stacks , sifting endlessly through volumes of ancient books in search of pithy quotes and facts .
Today , students are abandoning the card catalog and turning to the Web to do research .
They can write an entire paper without ever visiting the campus library or cracking open a textbook .
But those turning to the Web may be left searching for answers , since not everything ever written -- especially the newer stuff -- will be available .
And students who 've grown up thinking the Web is free may be surprised to learn that unlike traditional libraries , electronic libraries are charging for their services .
" The element that the Internet is missing most is valuable , authoritative information , " said Christopher Warnock , CEO of ebrary.com . "
For a lot of students , if information does n't exist on the Internet , it does n't exist . "
While many sites , such as Project Gutenberg , Alex Catalogue of Electronic Texts , Bartleby.com and the Electronic Text Center offer e-texts that can be downloaded for free , these sites are limited to copyright-free works already in the public domain .
As Project Gutenberg 's site states , " You will n't find the latest bestsellers or modern computer books here . "
Unlike these sites for public-domain works , commercial online library services such as netLibrary allow users to access secure , searchable collections of copyrighted electronic texts .
Two new commercial electronic library services debuting this school year , ebrary.com and Questia Media , could expand access to material that has been previously unavailable on the Web .
While netLibrary , like traditional libraries , allows only one person to access a copy of a book at a time , both ebrary.com and Questia will secure rights directly from publishers so that an unlimited number of people may be able to access a given book at a given time .
Both services will create electronic versions of print publications that have not yet been digitized .
By providing access to secure , copyrighted material , these services may help alleviate the problem of unchecked sources .
" This is the first opportunity for students to really have a credible service , " said Troy Williams , founder and CEO of Questia .
" I see this as an answer to the problem of filtering all the stuff on the Web , " said Carol Hughes , research librarian for Questia . "
Students are realizing that the information that they grab on the Web about the Civil War could be written by a 12-year-old . "
Hughes is part of Questia 's team of experienced research librarians hired to build an online collection that mirrors leading academic libraries .
The librarians must determine what the most commonly referenced research books and journals are across relevant subject areas .
" It 's one of the first commercial services that has taken seriously the goal of providing quality academic information over the Web , " Hughes said . "
It 's going to be the first respectable collection with retrospective titles in it . "




Africa : The Linux Continent ?

NAIROBI , Kenya -- Every Friday afternoon , Githogori wa Nyangara-Murage holds free computing seminars to young programmers in his cluttered office .
Githogori , a former software researcher at the Xerox Research Center , is preaching the gospel of Linux .
He 's convinced that the free software model is the only way for Africa to ever leapfrog its status as an underdeveloped continent .
At the heart of Githogori 's quest is the explosive politics of proprietary versus free , open-source software .
In Africa , even with its few computers , this debate is now boiling down to a clash between Microsoft Windows and Linux OS .
MSFT
" The free software model makes sense for Africa .
It puts Africa and the rest of the world on an equal level , " Githogori says .
" Under the proprietary software model , Africa is just investing in unattainable dreams because we can not afford to pay all this money that the continent is paying proprietary software . "
Robert Bunyi , a research analyst with Equity Stockbrokers , attributes the high cost of proprietary software to be a major contributing factor to rampant software piracy in Africa .
For instance , the Windows operating system costs around US$ 100 and the Windows Office Suite applications may cost as much as US$ 800 in Kenya .
In a continent where the average annual per capita income is less than US$ 250 , proprietary software -- with its accompanying licensing difficulties -- is a major drawback for would-be Windows users .
But by definition , Linux piracy is not even an issue .
The Linux OS is free , but Githogori 's company , Silicon Bazaar , has added applications for small- and medium-sized businesses for an affordable fee of US$ 6.50 .
Already , the technology scene in Africa , led by the much richer South African and Nigerian economies , is starting to stir up passions for Linux .
The Linux User Project rates South Africa as having the 24th-largest user base in the world .
Kenya , Algeria , Egypt and Botswana are trailing behind .
There are several registered users , even in the most remote parts of the continent .
Microsoft Ltd. , however , does not see Linux as a threat .
East Africa
" We do n't have the technical skills for the development , support and training for a Linux platform in Africa , " says Loiuse Otieno , Microsoft 's Business Development manager for East Africa .
She says that with the broad range of application software and support that Microsoft has in Africa , it will be very hard for Linux to make major inroads .
" It goes beyond the cost of the box , " Otieno says . "
We look at it as the cost of ownership in installation and support . "
Sam Nganga , a technology columnist with the East African Standard , says that Microsoft , while nowhere near total penetration in the continent , is relatively entrenched .
" The reason why Linux has not caught up so fast is because most big companies operate on group-wide IT platforms built on Microsoft NT , " Nganga says .
He says that African businesses have been slow to deploy Linux " because it 's relatively new and businesses are watching to see whether it 's reality or just another fad before they commit millions of dollars in IT budget .
" But once businesses get to trust the Linux platform , it will catch on like bush fire . "




Tech , Do n't Go Breakin ' My Heart

Despite 70-hour workweeks at an Internet startup in Texas , Mike Kilgore always finds time to play a practical joke on his wife .
Like the time he phoned her from a copy center in Dallas .
Stacie Kilgore -- a research analyst working at their home in Peachtree City , Georgia -- picked up the phone only to be startled by Mike 's image blaring on a 32-inch television screen .
Stacie , 29 , is used to seeing her coworkers on the monitor .
The TV screen is part of the hardware that Forrester Research -- based in Cambridge , Massachusetts -- supplies so she can telecommute from Peachtree City .
Long-distance relationships are n't new , but they have taken a different form in the Internet Age .
Men and women alike are being lured by the promises of Internet startups -- sometimes taking one or the other out of town for long stretches .
But with communications technology being what it is , the distances do n't have to be as burdensome .
So while Mike , 32 , does n't have the necessary equipment to tap into the video line on a regular basis , he does have access to cellular phones , email and instant messages .
" We are able to have more quality time together on the weekends because we are able to plan and eliminate a lot of chores and tasks that would interfere , " Mike said .
Having grown up with a working father and stay-at-home mother in the sleepy town of Seale , Alabama , Mike can understand why some outsiders may view his marriage-and-work balancing act as " crazy . "
" My view was , you go to college , get married afterwards and start having kids , " he said .
It 's not quite like that for Mike today .
From Monday to Thursday , Mike is in Dallas working as the vice president of sales and marketing for Encentris , a developer of software that allows employees to work virtually anywhere .
Stacie works from Cambridge three days every other week -- during which time their yellow Labrador , Izzie , spends her time in a Web camera-monitored " doggie " daycare .
Throughout the week Mike and Stacie constantly shoot off instant messages to each other , or call on their cell phones to firm up weekend plans -- usually something outdoorsy like golfing and bike riding .
They rely on the Internet to complete household chores .
Stacie calls Webvan to do her grocery shopping .
Mike often consults online sources to help him with his yard work .
While no analyst could say how many couples have arrangements like that of the Kilgores , many marriage counselors are shaking their heads disapprovingly .
Their workloads have swelled with long-distance couples in the tech industry .




Amiga Fans , the Wait Is Over

Finally , say the Amiga faithful , new hardware .
Amiga Inc. has announced a pair of upgrade boards for old Amiga computers as well as an OEM partner to produce the first new equipment in seven years .
The new machines will n't bear much of a resemblance to classic Amigas internally , since the old computer used a number of custom chipsets that can no longer be fabricated .
Still , the new hardware gives life to aging systems , some of which are being held together with bubble gum and paper clips .
It provides emulation so existing software will continue to run on the upgraded systems -- until Amiga software developers can get their software ported to the new operating system .
" People have something that 's going to give them some real power , " said Kermit Woodall , vice president of research and development of Nova Design , a developer of video-editing and graphics tools in Richmond , Virginia .
finally
The video-editing market remains one area where the Amiga has remained alive . "
Now we have a complete plan for supporting people who use the old operating system and want something newer , " Woodall said .
The AmigaOne PPC 1200 and AmigaOne PPC 4000 are plug-in cards for existing Amiga 1200 and 4000 computers , developed back in 1993 , that have been upgraded with things like PowerPC accelerator cards and video editing cards .
" A lot of people have sunk thousands of dollars into these machines , " said Bill McEwan , president of Amiga , in Snoqualmie , Washington . "
So rather than make people go out and buy a new machine , this is a way to extend that life . "
The cards can n't be used in the existing cases due to their size , but many Amiga retailers offer upgrades where the computer is removed from the old case and put in a new , larger case with more expansion room .
The cards are a complete upgrade , with a PowerPC G3 or G4 processor , 64 MB of memory , a Matrox video card , a network card and USB and firewire ports .
There are also PCI slots for further expansion .
The new systems are from bPlan GmbH , a German company .
They are PowerPC-based , with a CPU module so the chip can be upgraded in the future , along with 64 MB of memory , the Matrox video card , Creative Labs sound , a 10 GB drive , CD or DVD-ROM drive , Ethernet networking , USB and firewire .
The bPlan computers will only have PCI slots and will not run old Amiga cards , which used a bus called Zorro II or Zorro III .
The AmigaOne systems run a new operating system being developed by Amiga , called Amiga Digital Environment .
DE
The AmigaDE operating system has emulation to run old Amiga software , so Amiga users can continue to run their old software on the AmigaOne PPC cards and bPlan machines while waiting for the software to be ported to the AmigaDE environment .
The one shortcoming of the AmigaDE operating system is that it can not use any hardware that made calls to the classic Amiga 's chipset .
That includes the Video Toaster , one of the most popular video-editing peripherals on the Amiga .
The old chipsets , which handled memory management , sound and video , can no longer be fabricated because there are no more semiconductor manufacturing plants in the U.S. capable of making the chips , according to McEwan .
The positive to AmigaDE is its binary compatibility .
AmigaDE will run on more than a dozen chipsets , including PowerPC , StrongARM and Intel , and any application written for the AmigaDE platform will work regardless of the underlying chipset .
Woodall thinks Amiga is making the right moves to keep the Amiga market alive .
" This gives our clients something much faster to run , and when we get our product migrated to the new system , we can sell upgrades , " he said . "
We all know nothing is without its hiccups , but it looks like they are providing everything they can do to make this move as smooth as possible . "
The AmigaOne PPC cards will be developed by Eyetech Group in England .
The cards are expected to sell for US$ 499 .
The boards are expected to ship to developers in December , with a Q1 2001 release .
The bPlan computers will be available by Q1 2001 for $ 800 through Amiga retailers .




Online Music 's Strange Bedfellows

SAN FRANCISCO -- America Online Inc. spent $ 86 million last year to buy Nullsoft Inc. , a renegade startup responsible for programs such as Winamp and Gnutella , which have helped millions use the Internet to obtain and play music free-of-charge .
Far from being co-opted , Nullsoft programmers have since spent some of their spare time cracking AOL 's code , apparently happy to subvert corporate profit models with software that leverages the global information network 's innate distributive power .
Casual observers of Nullsoft 's headquarters in an old warehouse in San Francisco 's Mission District might mistake the programmers pecking away at terminals for nice , clean-cut , 20-something establishment types .
Casual observers would be wrong .
According to the credo posted in blood-red lettering on Nullsoft 's website , they consider themselves " legitimate nihilistic media terrorists " whom history will " no doubt canonize . "
That philosophy would appear to clash with the corporate mandate of AOL , which hopes to profit in virtually every area of Internet content through its pending merger with media-rich Time Warner .
Nullsoft 's programmers refused to be interviewed , and founder Justin Frankel declined comment after The Associated Press made repeated requests by telephone and e-mail .
America Online was also circumspect .
Spokesman Jim Whitney called Frankel 's activities an internal personnel matter .
But if their behavior is any indication , Nullsoft 's half-dozen star programmers seem determined to keep their hacker spirit intact , scripting a growing series of freely distributed software .
And for now , in public at least , AOL seems nonplussed by Nullsoft 's antics .
" Nobody 's slapped their hand yet , " said Joyce Graff , research director at the Gartner Group , who thinks that in the long run it is in AOL 's best commercial interests to maintain close contact with creative programmers like Frankel and company .
" Just to be a hair subversive , " she said , " it tends to keep you honest . "
Warmly referred to on Nullsoft 's website as " Our Benevolent Dictator , " Frankel founded the company in 1998 as a 19-year-old University of Utah dropout .
He parlayed Winamp which plays MP3 files -- high quality computer versions of songs frequently copied from CDs -- into the most sought-after piece of audio software on the Internet before agreeing to be bought by the Dulles , Virginia-based behemoth in May 1999 .
Winamp had more than 25 million registered users as of June 21 .
After the recording industry sued Napster Inc. in an effort to contain the Internet music-swapping craze , Frankel ensured that the MP3 genie would forever remain out of its bottle .




Usenet Sale : Sounds to Silence ?

It 's a massive database stuffed with reams of human conversation that is rummaged daily by Internet users worldwide .
It 's loaded with 500 million postings in 35,000 discussion forums .
In five years , its digital waist-size has ballooned to over 1.5 terabytes -- or 1,500 gigabytes .
It is the Usenet archive of Deja.com -- and its fate is now in question because it is about to be sold .
More to the point , a change in fortune for the biggest Usenet archive on the Net raises the question : Does the archive have a secure future ?
Deja officials confirmed a report published last week that the New York company is seeking a merger for its e-commerce-focused Precision Buying Service .
Separately , the company has already reached a deal in principle for the sale of the Usenet half of its service .
A company official speaking on condition of anonymity confirmed the sale , but would not name the buyer of the archive or the price .
The Deja archive is by far the largest record of Usenet -- a 5-year-old collection of newsgroup discussions taking place through Usenet 's worldwide communications network .
To check out the latest buzz on anything from Thai recipes to sex to urban legends , Net users can search Deja 's archive and trawl discussions dating back to 1995 .
Usenet experts , pioneer users -- as well as business executives who 've tried to build businesses around online discussion -- think the 5-year-old record of Usenet still means a great deal to the Internet .
" I do n't think it 's lost its value , " said Ariel Poler , CEO and co-founder of Topica .
Topica provides a discussion archive of its own , storing the content of e-mail-based discussion lists .
Topica users can browse and search the contents of e-mail lists using a Web interface -- just as Deja has done with Usenet discussions .
Poler thinks Usenet may yet harbor an untapped , Web-like potential for a new information business model .
Not yet , though .
The Deja sale underscores the fact that no Net company seems to be able to successfully exploit the odd animal of Usenet .
" I still find good information there , " Poler said . "
I think it 's a real shame that these companies ... such as Deja ... are not going to be doing it much longer . "
Usenet was , in a sense , the Net before the Net .
Special " store-and-forward " protocols enabled Usenet 's unique form of conversation and collaboration to take place over connected Unix computers , whether those connections were full-time or not .
" Usenet is kind of special , " said Richard Sexton , a pioneering user and newsgroup founder in the network 's early days . "
It 's actually a protocol -- a fundamental service , like e-mail and the Internet ...
network
.
It 's an institution . "




Bezos Bullish on Business

Although Amazon.com still will n't say when it 'll turn a profit , executives assured investors on Tuesday that the company is well on its way to losing less money .
At the close of the regular trading day , the Internet retail behemoth surprised investors by reporting a quarterly loss of $ 68 million -- or 25 cents a share .
Although those numbers might not sound like something to cheer , Amazon beat expectations by a wide margin .
AMZN
According to a First Call survey of investment bank analysts , the consensus on Wall Street was that Amazon would lose 33 cents a share .
Amazon executives , in a conference following the announcement , were unfailingly chipper about the returns , touting the company 's success in drawing new customers and expanding into markets outside its meat-and-potatoes book and music business .
" Though we 've lots more to do , we 've already started to see meaningful results , " said a cheery Jeff Bezos in a conference call with investors Tuesday afternoon .
Although Bezos did n't set a target date for when the company may actually turn a profit -- an event eagerly anticipated by investors -- he said he expects losses as a percentage of total sales to continue to shrink .
Early indications are that investors liked what they heard .
Shares of Amazon were up 11 percent in after-hours trading .
The reaction offered a sharp contrast to Amazon 's last earnings report , when its stock dipped 17 percent the day after the announcement and the company got downgraded by a raft of Wall Street analysts .
In addition to talking about the most recent quarter , Bezos laid out optimistic goals for the ever-crucial holiday shopping season .
The company is tentatively projecting that it will sell between $ 950 million and $ 1.05 billion worth of stuff in the last three months of the year .
This will be Amazon 's sixth holiday selling season , Bezos said , making the company one of the most experienced e-tailers on the block .
To prep for the escalating volume of orders expected in November and December , he said the company will be holding weekly and eventually daily " war room " meetings to tackle the big e-shopping issues of the moment .
Amazon executives are also hoping this will be good holiday year for the company to expand outside its traditional books and music business .
The company will be actively marketing its offerings in electronics , kitchen supplies , beauty products and toys , sold through a partnership with Toys R Us .
As for its most recent quarter , the company attributed its rise in revenues largely to sales of stuff other than books .
In the month of September , for example , Bezos noted that six of the 10 top-selling items on Amazon came from its electronics store .
In all , Amazon said it sold $ 638 million worth of products in the three-month period ending Sept. 30 , an increase of 79 percent compared with the same period last year .
While this quarter the company 's losses amounted to a little more than 10 percent of total sales , chief financial officer Warren Jensen said he predicted that figure would dip to less than 5 percent next year .
For the time being , Amazon executives said they do n't plan on building more expensive U.S. distribution centers .
Still , Amazon plans to continue expanding operations in Europe .
Sales at the company 's French , English and German online stores totaled $ 88 million this past quarter , more than twice the revenue from a year ago .
As the company pushes to gain customers in Europe , Bezos noted that less of Amazon 's red ink this past quarter came from U.S. operations .
" Over half the losses of the company are in areas outside the U.S. , which are areas we believe can clearly use the investment , " he said .




Consumers Seek a Stealth World

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- Products that speed up surfing and protect your identity are taking center stage at Internet World Fall 2000 .
Perhaps as a reaction to last year 's tradeshow -- when fast connections were promised but not delivered , and when many offerings involved the excitement of having advertisements beamed to you -- slimmed-down , stealth products are being shown at many booths .
DataBites demoed its Internet Content Recorder , which the company says will speed up Web browsing .
The software , with an interface that mimics a VCR , records websites and allows them to be stored in desktop mini-windows , also called DataBites .
Each bite is linked to its parent page , and information contained in it is updated in real time .
Users can select any portion of a Web page that they want to monitor and can also set an alarm that will notify them when the content of a databite changes .
" With DataBites , you do n't have to waste time browsing , " said Richard Rof , CEO of DataBites . "
Our ICR gives users instant , customized access to all the information the Web has to offer - &mdash; with none of the headaches . "
Rolf noted that most users revisit the same pages over and over again , clicking on the same series of links each time to get to stock quotes , package tracking information , flight schedule " or what-have-you . "
He said that DataBites believes that " life is short , and all that time could be more profitably spent eating imported chocolates , playing a round at Pebble Beach or writing the great American novel . "
The company 's website has a section called " Bite Central , " a repository of thousands of user-created bites containing information from the most popular entertainment , sports , travel , finance and special-interest sites on the Web .
DataBites users can also share bites by e-mailing them to others .
Rolf also noted that DataBites work especially well on handheld devices .
" Why should people struggle through Web page after Web page on their little wireless device , when all they really need is their frequent flyer miles or their flight gate information ? " says Rolf .




The Spy Who Geeked Me

NEW YORK -- Katrina Barillova does n't have your average IT executive resume .
Child prodigy .
Trained as a spy in Czechoslovakia .
Fashion model .
Bodyguard to billionaires .
Startup co-founder .
And she is all of 27 .
Barillova 's latest enterprise is as chief operating officer of Charmed Technologies , where she develops wireless communications devices that make being geek chic .
Charmed put together a " Brave New Unwired World " fashion show here at Internet World Fall 2000 , where models used the catwalk to show off wireless wearable computers that accessorize well with the fashions of the well-to-do .
The models showed off the latest in sleek cell phones , miniature MP3 players and headset displays -- along with Barillova 's prototypes for earrings , necklaces and rings that allow you to show your flesh while hiding your wireless connection .
Barillova 's curious road to fashionable-wearables inventor started at the age of 14 when her stellar intellect garnered the attention of government officials in then-communist Czechoslovakia .
she had an IQ of 142 at age 10
She was placed in a spy training program , where for four years she studied six languages and learned the latest surveillance technologies , all the while keeping up her regular schoolwork .
Barillova said her parents did n't even know about her secret identity -- they read about it in The New York Times years later .
Her " cover " while in training was to work as a fashion model .
" Models are not suspected of working in intelligence -- or of having much brain activity at all , " Barillova said .
But before Barillova could begin her secret agent career , communism fell apart , so she began working as an " executive protection specialist " or bodyguard .
Barillova said she spent several years protecting royalty in the Middle East as well as some Hollywood celebs .
Being a statuesque beauty who could unassumingly accompany a sheik 's entourage while operating the latest surveillance technologies put her in high demand .
Her training in surveillance technologies and a desire to make wireless communications available to everyone across the globe prompted her decision to launch the wearable technology company .
Barillova has always had an interest in fashion , and has been designing her own clothes , so Charmed allows her to combine her passions .
She formed the company with Alex Lightman , an MIT grad who was working in satellite communications , in 1999 .
Barillova said that while some wireless devices will always be limited to the well-to-do , she believes that giving people inexpensive devices to stay constantly connected will help the disadvantaged .
Barillova recognized that countries like the United States that dominate in communications technology also dominate economically , so all citizens should have that same access .
Now she wants everyone to be able to communicate or search for information anywhere at any time . "
The Internet changed the world , " Barillova said . "
Constant communications will enable people to educate themselves at anytime . "
To that end , Barillova is involved with Lincos.Net , which gives Internet access devices to people in Latin America .
She would also like to start a technical college in her native country , which has since been renamed Slovakia , because the country has no equivalent to Silicon Valley .




Coming Soon : Pay-Per-Game

Why own the latest video game when you can rent it from the comfort of your PC ?
Yummy Interactive announced agreements this week with leading video-game publishers Infogrames , Activision , Ripcord Games and Eidos that will allow broadband users to download files from Yummy 's site to play stand-alone or multi-player games .
The system is limited to broadband users because games are so large .
Unreal Tournament , for example , is almost 800 MB , which is totally impractical for a 56-kbps modem user .
Yummy 's site sends users all they need to get started playing the games , and as more bytes are needed , they are sent from the server to the users .
The software is installed on a user 's system and runs for a 48-hour period .
It remains on the user 's computer so he does n't have to download the code all over if he stops playing and restarts within the 48-hour period .
Yummy will charge $ 2.99 to $ 4.99 , depending on the game .
Some of the titles will include " Tomb Raider : The Lost Artifact , " " Battle Zone II , " " Beachhead 2000 " and " Spec Ops 2 . "
" We 're removing the purchase risk , " said Michael Kary , vice president of marketing for the San Bruno , California company . "
People do n't know what they 're getting , and that could be a scary risk at $ 49 .
" We believe people will come and play over and over because it will take a while to hit the purchase price . "
In addition to offering new games , Yummy will offer bundles of older games with unlimited play for a month at $ 10.99 .
Yummy will offer between 40 and 60 titles , according to Kary .
The company will launch a beta site on Nov. 1 , where 2,000 testers can sign up for free for the month .
If all goes well , Yummy will take the site live in December .
The deals with the four publishers are for the beta period only , but Yummy is negotiating with the four companies and a few others to get them signed on for when the site goes live .
Ripcord Games , best known for its Spec Ops games , is one participant in the beta , and it expects to sign on after the site goes live .
The company thinks Yummy 's site will help not only promote new titles , but extend the life of older games as well .




Intel : Mideast Chips Are Safe

Do n't worry , says Intel .
Unrest in the Middle East will n't hamper the flow of Pentium 4s .
Intel spokesman Chuck Malloy dismissed a report in The Register last week that suggested that Intel 's Fab 18 plant in Qiryat Gat , Israel , could become embroiled in " in any local unpleasantness . "
" That report was totally wrong , " Malloy said . "
First , it 's not just a Pentium 4 plant .
It 's a microprocessor plant .
We produce Pentium 3s , Celerons , potentially Pentium 4s -- but it 's not strictly a Pentium 4 plant . "
Moreover , Malloy said that the plant is not in a disputed territory , as the Register reported . "
It 's in the ' Gaza District , ' not Gaza , " he said , suggesting that it was unlikely that production at the plant will be hampered due to unrest .
After the Register 's story ran last week , message boards dedicated to investing in Intel briefly buzzed with the news .
Many who posted wondered whether the next-generation P4 , whose release has already been pushed back a few times , will be further delayed .
One person posting on a Yahoo message board speculated on Intel 's decision to produce its chips in the troubled region .
YHOO
INTC
" I do not understand how Intel management could be so stupid and build plant in Israel ? " he said . "
Geese !
!
And people invest in this stupid company ! "
Others wondered whether Intel could produce its new chip elsewhere .
When asked about other production facilities for its chips , Malloy recited a list that spanned the globe , from Arizona to Ireland to Oregon .
But Malloy did n't say whether any of these plants could specifically produce P4s .
Previous press reports , notably one in the Israel daily newspaper Haaretz , which relied on leaks from the Qiryat Gat plant , have noted that two machines required to produce the new chips are only at Qiryat Gat .
Malloy added that production in Israel is not a new thing for the company . "
We 've been in Israel for more than 20 years .
We have development centers all over the region . "
The Qiryat Gat plant is five years old , and it complements another plant , Fab 8 , which is in Jerusalem .
Malloy declined to comment on whether unrest in the area could prompt the company to shift chip production to other plants .
He said that production was an internal matter , and that the company was monitoring the situation in Israel .




Beam Me a Coupon , Scotty

A new broadcast technology could send money-saving coupons directly from your television to your cell phone .
It 's either a great technology or more fodder for those who distrust the ever-invasive nature of the information age .
Or a little bit of both .
VEIL Interactive Technologies is partnering with Ericsson Mobile Phones to promote its data-transmission product , which transmits data through your television .
ERICY
The VEIL technology allows digital information to be invisibly delivered by an ordinary television signal , which is then picked up by a device -- such as a cell phone or PDA -- with a receptor chip .
Video Encoded Invisible Light
Think of it as Bluetooth for your television .
As an example of one of its uses , the company 's website shows a robot dog sitting next to a television .
A signal imbedded by VEIL is picked up by the dog , which reacts by barking and wagging its tail .
More practical uses would be for an advertiser to provide information to specific users .
Perhaps to beam them coupons during the commercials .
The VEIL technology is similar to VBI , another method for transmitting information over a television broadcast -- be it broadcast , cable , digital satellite or even home video .
Vertical Blanking Interval
There are differences in the two technologies , though .
VBI uses a separate channel , which means it can be stripped out by a cable company or other provider , since they can and do argue that transmitting the VBI signal is extra bandwidth and that costs them money .
The VEIL signal is in the actual picture , like a watermark , making it impossible to strip out the VEIL encoding .
It can even be recorded on video tape and is still preserved , without degradation .
While VBI is more commonly used , VEIL may prove more appealing , according to one analyst with a technology research firm .
" It has advantages that make it an attractive solution , " said Heidi Peterson , senior manager of business development with Sarnoff Corp. , in Princeton , New Jersey . "
There is some controversy over who owns VBI content , the cable provider or the content owner .
VEIL puts the signal in the actual picture , so it would be difficult for anyone to strip that off . "
VEIL has two versions of the software , VEIL I and VEIL II .
The VEIL II technology is much higher bandwidth , pumping out 6,000 bits per second , much faster than the 60 bits per second output of the VEIL I technology .
VEIL II also supports the RF frequency , so it can be transmitted anywhere in the room and does n't require a direct line of sight with the TV .
The one shortcoming of both VEIL technologies is they are primarily one-way vehicles .
Two-way communication is only possible if your cable provider supports two-way transmission , which most do n't , or if the VEIL technology is in a set-top box and that box has a modem connection for the upstream transmission .
The VEIL I technology is primarily for activating devices , like the Ericsson phone , or coupons , while the high-speed VEIL II technology will be for transmitting data to cell phones and PDAs , according to Edward J. " Ted " Koplar , president and CEO of VEIL , in St. Louis , California .
VEIL is looking to put this technology in more than just television shows . "
It can go anywhere video goes , " Koplar said .
That includes stadiums , theme parks , kiosks and shopping centers .
VEIL is in talks to get the VEIL technology into handheld devices but will n't say who its potential partners could be because it is still early in negotiations .




Cyberwar Also Rages in Mideast

JERUSALEM -- Several Israeli websites containing the government 's perspective on the Mideast conflict crashed after Islamic groups abroad jammed them with fake traffic , Israeli officials said Thursday .
The cyberattack was the most intense since Israel 's government launched its Internet sites several years ago , and opens a new front in Israel 's confrontation with the Arab world .
Palestinian rioters have been clashing with Israeli forces for almost a month .
At a weekend summit , Islamic countries condemned Israel and called for cutting relations with the Jewish state .
Both sides are emphasizing the public relations aspect of their conflict .
Interest in the Israeli government websites has increased noticeably since the violence began Sept. 28 , officials said .
The targeted sites provide information about the conflict from an official Israeli point of view .
The first shot in the cyberwar was apparently fired by some Israeli teen-agers , who bragged to a local newspaper last week that they had sabotaged a website of the Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon .
Return fire was not long in coming .
Uri Noy , who oversees the Foreign Ministry 's website , said several extremist Islamic websites called on their users to attack Israeli sites .
Those groups , Noy said , provided users with computer programs that automate attacks by flooding sites with e-mail sent through a Web link .
The attacks are similar in concept to denial-of-service campaigns that crippled Yahoo , CNN and other sites in the United States and caused tens of millions of dollars in losses earlier this year .
" It 's too bad that the Internet has become another battleground , " said member of parliament Michael Eitan , the Knesset Internet expert . "
We need to have a cease-fire on the Web . "
First , the official site of the Israeli prime minister 's office went down .
After that site was restored , the Foreign Ministry 's website was overwhelmed by incoming mail and knocked off the Web .
Almost two days after the attack began , the site had still not been restored .
The Israeli army repaired its information website , and to increase security , switched from a local server to one connected to the U.S. communications giant AT&T , the military said .
The website of the Knesset , Israel 's parliament , was the target of a different kind of cyberattack .
Hackers broke into the site and tampered with its files , Knesset spokesman Giora Pordes said .
He said the attack may have come from Saudi Arabia .
An Israeli Internet service provider that hosts the three targeted sites scrambled to make repairs Thursday .
Israeli officials said no damage was done to sensitive computer systems used by the army and the government , since they are kept separate from the public Internet .
Copyright (c) 2000 The Associated Press




Honoring the Dearly Dot-Departed

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- Do you see dead dot-coms ?
Are you haunted by the specter of startups that have suddenly sputtered out ?
If so , then you can quiet those restless spirits by leaving an offering at the Internet World Fall 2000 memorial for newly departed e-commerce sites .
Hosted by the Humor Network , the " Dot.Com Deceased Memorial " honors 13 gone-but-not-quite-yet forgotten stabs at e-commerce .
" I 'm not sure if this is funny or not , " said John Graydon , a former employee of UrbanFetch , gazing at the graveyard that the Humor Network created at the tradeshow . "
But I guess I 'd be laughing really loudly if I was n't one of the ones who is collecting unemployment . "
Gravestones marked with names and the birth and death dates of each company have been erected in their honor , and are being lovingly decorated with icons that express the spirit of the services the dead offered -- cosmetics , food , video tapes , pet supplies and other bits and pieces of dot-com debris .
" A lot of people who seemed bound for success last year are dead and gone now , " said Nancy Vera Cruz , a Manhattan-based freelance writer who covers the successes and disasters of Silicon Alley .
" You can sense the strain in a lot of people who are wondering if they will be among the dead next year .
It sort of feels like we 're all gathering in the palace and partying while the black plague rages out there among the peasants . "
Flowers and cards honoring the dead can be delivered to booth 3473 and services will be held throughout the show .
" Anything that encourages people to laugh at their worries brings them together , " said Frank Gorski , a career counselor who says a lot of depressed , zombie-like dot-commers have been stumbling into his office lately .
" The memorial may seem a little heartless to the ' dead ' but it does bring out into the open worries that a lot of people are having .
And if it gets people to talk to each other about their fears , it 's a good thing . "
Eric Tragan , CEO of the Humor Network , said that Y2K has marked the tragic end to a promising future for many dot-coms .
" It 's been a tough year and we 've lost a lot of friends , " Targan said . "
It seems only yesterday that many of the names on these stones were young , happy-go-lucky companies enjoying the good life right here at Internet World .
" Sometimes I think I can feel the ghosts of our fallen comrades right here in this exhibit hall , " Targan added . "
Of course , better them than us . "




Browser Wars , the Sequel

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
NEW YORK -- Do you remember the Great Browser Wars ?
Three years ago the Internet 's hottest story centered on the combat between Netscape and Microsoft .
Back then it was believed that Web browsers would soon replace operating systems , and the battle over who would control the browser market seemed to be a crucial one .
The browser wars were also the Princess Diana of tech media -- whenever a reporter or editor could n't think of something to write about , he or she would trot out a detailed analysis of the latest shots fired by spunky upstart Netscape or monolithic , deep-pocketed Microsoft .
But then it ended .
Microsoft won .
Netscape was sold to America Online .
And the glory days of easy news stories seemed to be long over -- until this week .
Now it seems that the War has begun again .
And there 's even an interesting twist : This time the combatants have adopted each other 's battle strategy .
On Wednesday , at the Internet World Fall 2000 trade show , America Online released version 6.0 of its online service .
AOL 6.0 packs a plethora of new and -- since the service has always been targeted to Internet beginners -- surprisingly sophisticated features .
Microsoft , not at all by coincidence , also announced an upgrade to its MSN Internet service on Wednesday .
The new MSN is heavily focused on making the Internet easy to use , a concept that has long been a core part of AOL 's marketing .
" MSN and AOL do seem to have adopted each other 's strategies , " said Scott Shiver of Anderson Consulting .
" MSN used to market itself as the alternative to AOL for people who wanted something a little more refined , " Shiver said . "
And AOL has always been the service for the common man or woman .
Now they seem to have reversed their focus .
How strange . "
MSN features a new Internet browser dubbed the MSN Explorer .
Not to be confused with Microsoft 's Internet Explorer , the MSN Explorer includes free Web-based e-mail from Hotmail , an instant-messaging client , multimedia presentations pumped through the Windows Media Player , and quick links to services such as shopping , personal finance and travel .
" It 's an alternative to AOL , " said Mike Nichols , a product manager for MSN . "
MSN Explorer brings all the MSN services together in a usable way for new users up to advanced users . "




How to Sell CDs : Offer Free Stuff

" Value add . "
That 's the buzzphrase floating through the recording industry , as execs at the major labels search for ways to make consumers continue to purchase CDs in a peer-to-peer , file-trading world where music comes free and on demand .
Using technophile David Bowie as a test-marketing subject , two companies have developed a way to give consumers incentive to purchase their music by giving labels a method to give away free tracks .
Using a music-recognition technology that verifies that a specific CD is in a computer 's CD-ROM drive -- in this case Bowie at the Beeb -- the technology uses a " key " from the disk to search for the free tracks available to those who purchased the album .
" This really allows the labels to provide content after a CD has been taken home , " said Gracenote President David Hyman .
Along with the song-recognition software , major labels have other marketing tools at their disposal to encourage consumers to continue to purchase music .
They can create promotions in which consumers can receive free song downloads , specials on concert tickets , and anything else the labels can dream up .
Gracenote -- in an effort to create further demand -- has partnered up with audio search engine Gigabeat to help introduce music fans to music that sounds similar to the songs already on their computers .
As with any new technology these days , the Gracenote folks might have gone one step further than the recording industry would like .
The song-recognition software works with MP3 files as well .
That 's good news for Napster fans .
They can now identify the tracks they 've downloaded , and then use the new technology to search for other music they like by the artist 's music they 've downloaded .
No legal worries for Gracenote , though , because the technology itself ostensibly does n't break any laws .
The question is whether the music industry will work with the technology .
Hyman said deals were in the works -- but the ink is n't dry on the contracts yet .
---
The Great Nap Mac Attack : File traders of the world , unite .
With all due respect to Mr. Marx , the unveiling of Napster 's new Macintosh application should have longer lasting implications to the world than Communism -- and not just because Jobs ' disciples can now get free music .
If the already fervent Mac users attack Napster in the way they attacked the iMac , the recording industry could be facing an even nastier fight than it already has .
and yes , the Napster application comes in new , pretty colors
While Macintosh users already had access to the file-trading community through applications like Macster , this is the first official product developed specifically by Shawn Fanning and company .
Macster users can even upgrade to the new service , while keeping their Macster identification .
And , to make up for the 16-month wait , Fanning 's crew even included some new features .
The new service comes with all the fixings : search history , customizable tool bar , dockable chat windows , and drag-and-drop capabilities .
---
Microsoft TV : If it 's not a business 'til Microsoft gets involved , then watch out broadband home media .
With partner Zoomtown.com , Microsoft will be delivering on-demand entertainment through set-top boxes next year .
Consumers will have access to music , television , current movies , and film classics by streaming media through a cable hook-up attached to a set-top box .
And none of this unknown media .
Already on board on the film side are Warner Bros. , New Line Cinema , and Dreamworks .
On the music side , the Windows Media Player 7 comes built in -- although it also comes with the company 's digital rights management system , which will depress users who prefer MP3s .
---
Virgin Player : Virgin tycoon Richard Branson 's Internet radio company -- aptly called Radio Free Virgin -- launched its new , proprietary player this week .
The 30-channel station streams CD-quality sound across its network .
The kicker is that to get the full experience of the sound and metadata , you have to use the new player .
Of course , if you do download the application , an embedded browser can link listeners to album cover art , liner notes , and surprisingly , it will link users to Virgin Megastores online , where they can purchase the music .




How MS Helped With Own Hack

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
The Qaz worm used to hack into Microsoft 's servers on Thursday was not a particularly elegant piece of coding , but Shakespeare would have loved it .
As in , Bill Gates was hoisted with his own petard .
Qaz , as it turns out , was written in the company 's own programming language : Microsoft Visual C++ .
Security experts say an equally efficient worm could have been written in another programming language , but Visual C++ is rapidly becoming the hacking program of choice .
It 's relatively easy to learn Visual C programming , and rogue programs created with C++ are compatible with the majority of applications used by corporations .
So , it 's more ironic than anything that Qaz was used for the latest Microsoft hack .
" Do I think it was written in C++ specifically to mock Microsoft ?
No , " said David Anderson , of Anderson Consulting .
a small , freelance consulting firm not to be confused with the much larger Andersen Consulting
" But do I think its amusing that their own application was indirectly used to attack them ?
Yes .
God , I hate to admit it , but it made me smile , " Anderson added .
" It is interesting in a kind of cruel way that Microsoft has been eaten by the monsters it created , " said Andrew Antipass , a security consultant .
But Antipass said he finds it more interesting that Microsoft obviously stored valuable source code on a very accessible server .
" I tell my clients to isolate all valuable information off the network .
There 's something about this whole Microsoft hack that does n't make sense .
Either they thought they were invincible , or they left a door very open for reasons I can n't even begin to guess at . "
Jonathan Addams , a freelance security consultant , says that virtually any firewall can be bypassed if the organization behind that firewall has " the Outlook e-mail program , a Windows NT box as the server and just one dim employee . "
He was n't surprised to learn that the worm was written in Visual C++ .
" Microsoft products are in wide use , " Addams said . "
The cracks that are directed at Microsoft products are partly because they are so popular .
Why crack something that 's obscure ?
Addams said that this crack is more about people " being stupid " and opening e-mail attachments -- and systems administrators " being too lazy " to apply fixes for known problems -- than it is an issue with the security levels of Microsoft 's products .
The Qaz worm was identified in August .
It is a network worm with backdoor capabilities , which allows an attacker entry into an infected computer system .
Once a system has been breached by the worm , it is possible to grab passwords off the server logs and use those passwords to enter into other sections of the server .
The worm was considered to be of moderate risk , since it was n't spreading quickly and there was a fix for it at available at security sites such as F-Secure .
Addams said he was troubled by the fact that the crackers had access to the MS network for three months .
" You 'd think someone would have looked at the log , seen unusual activity and caught it in a day or two , " Addams said . "
There would have been significant and odd activity on their servers when this was happening . "




Vote-Auction Sidesteps Legalities

SACRAMENTO , California -- A website offering to sell 21,000 votes for president to the highest bidder has changed its domain name and switched its registrar to a company based in Germany .
Federal and state laws prohibit the sale of votes , but the Austrian owners of vote-auction.com denied they had moved operations overseas to avoid legal challenges .
Instead , investor Hans Bernhard wrote in an e-mail to The Associated Press , research showed that users frequently tried to type the new name of the site instead of the old name , which lacked the hyphen .
The site asks voters to fill out personal details and then offers to sell the votes in blocks broken down by state to the highest bidder .
The technique , the website says , brings the " big money of campaigns directly to the voting public . "
The site offers to deliver the votes to any corporation or individual , but it has n't identified voters , bidders or said when the sale will end .
The owners say the U.S. vote auction is a test to determine how they can make money .
They still need to work out how voters would be paid and how to verify that they cast the right ballot .
Election officials in Michigan and New York have criticized the scheme and a court challenge in Illinois led to the closing of the old site .
California Secretary of State Bill Jones warned any vote sellers they could face felony charges and a minimum of three years in prison .
The site was reopened this week with the help of CSL Computer Service of Germany .
By Thursday , more than 2,500 California voters had offered their votes and the leading bid was $ 48,000 or $ 19.61 per vote .
" Truthfully , this could probably go on forever , so long as it is known by those who wish to use the service , for lack of a better term , " said Steve Jones , a professor at the University of Illinois , Chicago , who follows the Internet .
Shad Balch , a spokesman for California 's secretary of state , said the domain name change would not affect California 's investigation into the site and its employees .
He said investigators have found a way to identify users but would not go into details .
Bernhard said the site 's message board had been taken offline to protect users from the investigation .
Industry experts say it would be almost impossible to identify voters by using technology .
" There is virtually no legal way to check who is using the site without a subpoena or warrant , which is unlikely when the operations are international , " said Stewart Farley of Internet Products Inc. , a San Diego company that makes Web-filtering products .
The original website was launched by a New York graduate student who sold the site in August after he was threatened with legal action by New York state officials .
Internet auction site eBay has also had to wrangle with potential vote selling .
In August , six people offering to sell their votes for president drew bids as high as $ 10,100 before the online auctioneer shut them down .




Hackers Crack Into MS System

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Microsoft 's development unit , which houses the blueprints for its Windows and Office applications , has confirmed it was penetrated by hackers on Thursday , and CEO Steve Ballmer said " hackers did see some of our source code . "
But Ballmer also said none of the coding was changed , implying that no virus had been hidden inside -- which would appear in future releases of the products .
" I can assure you that we know that there has been no compromise of the integrity of the source code , that it has not been modified or tampered with in any way , " Ballmer said .
The system was evidently breached , according to a security expert , with a common worm well-known in hacking circles as QAZ .
Microsoft insists that the source code for its applications , which resides on the company servers , was not altered , but some security experts speculate that it is possible that the code has been corrupted .
MSFT
Mikko Hypponen , a security expert at Finnish-based data protection specialists F-Secure , said the attacker apparently managed to steal source code belonging to Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office applications .
" And theoretically , the attacker also has the technical means to modify source code -- which would raise questions about the trustworthiness of future versions of applications such as Microsoft Word or Microsoft Internet Explorer , " Hypponen said .
Source code is the basic building blocks of computer applications , and contains programming commands that tell an application how to function .
The company called the break-in a " deplorable act of corporate espionage , " and immediately called the FBI , with which the company is working to protect its intellectual property .
Microsoft spokesman Rick Miller declined to comment on what specific areas of the computer network were breached , what the specific goals of the hackers were , or the possible motives .
" Microsoft is moving aggressively to isolate the problem and to secure our corporate network .
We are confident that the integrity of our source code remains secure , " Miller said .
Hypponen said that " worm-assisted " cracking makes it relatively easy for an outsider to gain access to confidential data .
" After a target computer has been located by the attacker , he does n't have to gain direct access to it , " he said . "
Instead , he infects any computer inside the target organization with a worm like QAZ and then waits for the worm to spread .
When the worm eventually finds its way to the target computer , it will report this back to the attacker , who can now access the computer to steal and modify any data on it . "
The QAZ worm was first reported in China several months ago .
It had been ranked by security firms as a medium threat . "
It 's very strange that they were n't protected against this , " said Andrew Antipass , a Manhattan-based security consultant . "
QAZ has been well-documented in security circles . "
Microsoft 's security employees discovered the break-in after they detected passwords that were being remotely sent to an e-mail account in St. Petersburg , Russia .
The passwords were being used to transfer source code .
Antipass and Hypponen said this was typical of the way a worm virus would operate .
A worm infests computer systems by replicating itself throughout an infected network .
It probably entered the Microsoft system hidden inside an e-mailed document , Antipass said .
" It 's very effective , " Antipass said .
" A hacker does n't need to hack into a computer himself .
The worm does it for him and then reports back , " Hypponen added .
It 's also typical for programmers to disable virus protection , since these programs can slow down a computer , Hypponen said .
" Turning off virus protection is a bad thing to do but I 'd wager you would n't find one programmer or technician who has n't done it , " Antipass said . "
You just assume you are smarter than the worms . "
Hypponen said F-Secure has been forecasting worm-based industrial espionage to happen for quite some time , " and it looks like now it has happened big-time . "
A hacker who preferred to remain anonymous said he thinks that " someone broke in to steal the code , to alter it , or both .
And OK -- I admit that if I 'd been in there , I 'd have added a few secret ' hello world ' messages into that code .
There are thousands upon thousands of lines of code in those applications .
How could anyone resist tinkering a bit ?
And believe me , it would be very hard to find a little customization in all that code . "
Although it looks like this crack was done by a single " rogue anti-Microsoft attacker , " Hypponen said that similar attacks could be used for traditional espionage .
A technical description of the QAZ worm is available from the F-Secure virus description database .




Auctioning for PlayStation Action

Bummed out because your local Best Buy is sold out of PlayStation 2 consoles ?
No. 2,145 on the waiting list at Babbage 's Etc. ?
You might be able to get your hands on a PS2 within a week -- if you do n't mind a 100 percent markup .
Just head on over to eBay and enter " Playstation 2 " in the search box .
Thanks to Sony failing to meet demand and anxious consumers who want their PlayStation 2 fix , enterprising owners of PSX2 consoles are selling their $ 299 consoles for a hearty profit .
There are as many as 100 consoles for sale on eBay and many were up for bid days before the product was even in stores .
Most of the resellers are pricing their consoles at the retail price of $ 299 , but anxious bidding quickly shoots the prices into the $ 400 and $ 500 range .
Many have already sold for more than $ 1,000 , and some have gone for as much as five grand .
Not surprisingly , Sony is n't thrilled .
" What we do n't want is for people to feel that 's the only way they can get it , " said Molly Smith , a spokeswoman for Sony Computer Entertainment , which produced the PlayStation .
Sony shipped 500,000 units into the retail channel -- half of what it promised -- and will continue to ship 100,000 units per week through Christmas .
" We 're committed to doing everything we can to get as many units in the channel , " Smith said . "
We 'd recommend people continue to contact retail outlets and ask about shipments . "
With crowds stretching around buildings and blocks where the console is sold , some people find the premium price worth it if they can avoid an endless wait in line .
" It is worth the extra money to me to just go online and with a click of a button be assured that I will get one , rather than have to wait in line , store after store , and still end up empty-handed , " said Allison Davis , a winning eBay bidder from Arkansas who paid $ 760 for her console along with an extra controller , memory card and two games .
" This way was much easier and with much less stress , " Davis said . "
It was more money but worth it to me in the long run .
I hate shopping in crowds ! "
Chad Davis of Atlanta had two units and decided to sell one when he smelled an opportunity .
" After hearing of the shortages I recognized my unique position and decided to capitalize on the opportunity , " he said .
Davis sold one for $ 585 but the winner stiffed him on the deal , so he 's re-listing the console again .




One Final , Cheap Shot at Space

The field of contenders for the Cheap Access to Space Prize , which just a month ago included a half-dozen teams hoping to launch by the Nov. 8 deadline , has been winnowed to one .
The $ 250,000 cash prize was offered three years ago to the first group to launch a 2-kilogram payload to an altitude of 200 kilometers .
Although many at first regarded the challenge as a no-sweat proposition , not one of the 50 or so teams that entered has made a prize attempt .
The last team standing with two weeks to go before the deadline is the High-Altitude Research Corporation , based in Huntsville , Alabama , which plans to launch early Sunday from a utility boat in the Gulf of Mexico 200 miles west of Tampa , Florida .
HARC will try to get to space using a rockoon system .
Its launching platform will be carried to an altitude of 70,000 feet , at which point the rocket will be fired .
By launching from above the thickest part of the atmosphere , the team can use a lighter , less powerful motor than if it launched from the ground .
Greg Allison , an aerospace engineer who works as a contractor on the International Space Station when he 's not leading HARC , said it 's not surprising that so many of the CATS teams have come to grief .
" You 've heard the saying that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link , " he said . "
Well , a rocket project has a whole lot of links . "
Participants in the contest -- designed to foster creation of new launch companies and the development of ultra-cheap launch vehicles -- have been undone by problems with federal flight regulators and by the basic difficulty of building a vehicle capable of going high enough and fast enough to leave the atmosphere .
J.P. Aerospace of Rancho Cordova , California , was derailed when the Federal Aviation Administration 's commercial space-transportation office decided it needed more time to process the company 's launch application .
JPA had applied in May for a waiver to launch from Northern Nevada 's Black Rock Desert on Oct. 7 .
SORAC , a Hollister , California group , also ran into trouble with the FAA and Bureau of Land Management officials who oversee the Black Rock Desert .




Look Smart by Wearing This Shirt

How smart is your shirt ?
Dallas-based Sensatex LifeLink plans to market " communal smart shirts " capable of anything from monitoring a patient 's vital signs to wirelessly tracking the wearer 's location .
Originally created by the Department of Defense Advance Research Project Agency -- the agency that invented the Internet -- the shirt is washable and can be designed to the wearer 's liking .
" It 's wearing a shirt that can move information off your body , " Sensatex LifeLink CEO Jeff Wolf said . "
You could have a guy in Chicago walking around ... and have his doctor in China analyzing the information in real time .
So his doctor in China could let him know how he is feeling at any given moment . "
By the way , if you have a better idea , why not suggest it ?
The company is encouraging people to write with ideas .
---
Speaking of fashion : Mobile-phone manufacturer Nokia unveiled on Thursday the Nokia 3390 -- a fashionable wireless handset that gives users four games and allows for text and picture messaging .
NOK
The phone , targeted to young adults , weighs 4.2 ounces and comes with changeable front and back covers in blue , white , red , gray , yellow or silver .
The company says the phones will be sold by GSM communications standard carriers and retailers by the end of November and will cost $ 99 to $ 149 .
Global System for Mobile
---
Nokia riding high : Nokia is clearly the leading mobile-phone manufacturer , posting a 19.6 percent third-quarter operating margin , compared to 6 percent for competitor Motorola and negative 29 percent for Ericsson .
The Finnish manufacturer is poised to sell over 100 million phones this year , predicting that the replacement market for handsets will grow 70 to 80 percent in coming years .
Nokia predicts over 400 million phones will be sold globally this year and about 550 million phones next year .
---
AT&T splits : In an attempt to pick up its floundering stocks ' value , AT&T (T) announced on Wednesday it would work as a family of four companies .
The four companies -- AT&T 's consumer , business , broadband and wireless units -- will be traded separately .
AT&T stock has fallen 47 percent in value this year .
---
I-Mode crosses the border : Sweden-based Xpedio is teaming up with Japan-based Access to offer Americans and Europeans i-mode-like services .
The companies say they will use NTT 's proprietary service for handsets , personal digital assistants and to wirelessly enable cars with Internet access .
I-Mode already touts over 13 million subscribers in Japan .
---
NTT to offer L-mode : Banking on the success of its i-mode service , NTT East and NTT West -- the regional domestic telecom carriers of Japanese giant NTT -- plans to offer a tethered line version of i-mode called L-mode .
L-mode handsets , which will be larger than their mobile counterparts and equipped with liquid-crystal display screens , will be launched in April in Japan .




Mars Back on NASA 's Radar

WASHINGTON -- When it comes to sending spacecraft to Mars , NASA has been as about successful recently as Al Gore 's attempts to catch up with George W. Bush in the polls .
First NASA lost the $ 125 million Mars Climate Orbiter in October 1999 .
Math errors spun the craft into the wrong trajectory , and it was never heard from again .
Then the $ 165 million Mars Polar Lander died a mysterious death a few months later , apparently crashing into a canyon and touching off an embarrassing landslide of accusations between NASA and contractor Lockheed Martin .
A year later , the embattled U.S. government agency seems to have found its space legs once again .
On Thursday , NASA announced a 20-year plan to send robotic landers to crawl the surface of Mars and remote-controlled balloons or airplanes to explore the Red Planet 's skies .
That means six missions over the next decade , including a 2005 launch of the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter , which scientists predict will be able to record images of surface objects as small as Tupperware containers .
It 's scaled back from an earlier , more ambitious scheme that would have sent missions every 26 months , when Mars ' orbit is aligned with Earth 's .
This plan envisions launches every four years instead .
But that does n't seem to worry the smiling NASA officials who turned out for a press conference Thursday at the agency 's headquarters in Washington .
" It 's not just the Mojave desert .
It 's an alien world full of surprises , " said Scott Hubbard , NASA 's Mars program director .
A more terrestrial surprise came earlier this month , when a Republican-controlled Congress decided to write a check to NASA for $ 14.29 billion .
That 's $ 633 million more than the agency received last year , and $ 250 million more than the Clinton administration had requested .
President Clinton this week signed the spending bill , which funds NASA for the fiscal year beginning this month .
" The Congress knows that it is performance that counts , and this budget is a tribute to NASA 's performance , " NASA chief Dan Goldin said at the time .
If performance does count in Washington -- a debatable suggestion at best -- dramatic discoveries are still the best way to capture the attention of the public .




Unhooking MS Browser , Again

No sooner does Microsoft come up with a new operating system that 's slower than the last one than we have a new version of 98 Lite -- the utility that does what Microsoft insists can n't be done : It unhooks the operating system from the Web browser .
Starting with Windows 98 , Microsoft sewed the Windows Explorer desktop and Internet Explorer browser closer , insisting customers wanted this feature .
Netscape and the Department of Justice disagreed , and we all know where that went .
Adding IE to Explorer allowed for features like Windows Update and Web backgrounds in Explorer folders .
Doing so also greatly slowed down Windows 98 , which drove researcher Shane Brooks , a biologist at the University of Maryland , to develop 98 Lite .
The original version of 98 Lite , released in late 1998 , just replaced three Windows 98 files with the Windows 95 versions .
By doing this , Internet Explorer was removed from the Windows desktop .
However , with 98 Lite 2.0 , Brooks found a way to modify the Windows Registry to unhook IE from Explorer , so no file replacement was required .
He also modified Windows so many features that were otherwise not removable could be uninstalled .
This included features like Data Access Objects , Windows Media Player and DirectX , for people who wanted a super-lean install .
Brooks has now released 98 Lite IV , with support for Windows ME .
In addition to unhooking IE 5.5 from Explorer , 98 Lite IV also makes Windows ME features removable .
This includes features like Imaging Support , System Restore and PC Health , and the latter two are major system hogs .
" Windows ME has some features that people will say are big improvements and others will say are no good at all , so one of the things I tried to do is let people keep only the features they want , " Brooks said .
Windows ME is by far the fattest of the Windows 9x codebase , due to features like imaging and PC Health .
" There are a lot more processes running in the background than you had in Windows 98 , " said Brooks . "
So 98 Lite looked at what 's running in the background to see how much needs to be there . "
System Restore is one questionable feature .
Because it keeps track of all the changes on your system , the restore folders can hit up to 600 MB in size as compressed files when you make a lot of changes , such as installing a lot of software .
System Restore also backs up Registry every six hours , which means a few more megabytes of space lost every day .
Aggressive users can cut their Windows ME install from more than 200 MB to 70 MB in disk space and more than double the amount of free memory on the computer , said Brooks .
Startup time has as much as 10 seconds sheared off while shutdown is nearly instantaneous .
For one user with an old 233 MHz Pentium II system , the improvement was noticeable .
" I was amazed how smooth it was running , " said Sebastian Schroeder of Germany . " &#91 ; Active Desktop&#93 ; really slowed my system down , but with 98 Lite I finally could remove them .
It felt like I removed a stone from Windows that was stopping it from being a good operating system . "
Brooks is also preparing a Windows 2000 version of 98 Lite .
In his early tests , he 's been able to cut Windows 2000 down from a 400 MB install to 140 MB .
" Half the technology that 's in there is stuff that an end-user will never use , " said Brooks .
This includes things like database drivers and Web-based enterprise management .
He expects to release the Windows 2000 version by year end .




MS Hacker 's Shorter Stay

SEATTLE -- A hacker had high-level access to Microsoft 's computer system for 12 days , not up to five weeks , as the company had first reported , and was monitored the entire time .
While the company says it believes no major corporate secrets were stolen , some security experts believe the 12-day period was plenty of time for a hacker to do damage that may not have been detected yet .
Microsoft spokesman Rick Miller said Sunday that beginning Oct. 14 a hacker gained access to high-level secrets and that at some point over the next 12 days viewed blueprints , or source code , for Microsoft software that is being developed .
When it confirmed the incident Friday , the Seattle-based software giant said an electronic intruder had access to source code for as long as five weeks .
Microsoft used that time estimate because the duration of the hacker 's presence was unclear and the company wanted to be sure it did not underestimate the problem , Miller said .
The company was alerted to the break-in by the creation of new accounts giving users access to parts of Microsoft 's computer network , Miller said .
" We start seeing these new accounts being created , but that could be an anomaly of the system , " Miller said . "
After a day or two , we realized it was someone hacking into the system . "
It was not until Oct. 26 , however , that the company notified federal law enforcement , which is investigating the matter .
Microsoft said it initially planned to handle the break-in on its own .
" We realized the intrusion had grown to the level that warranted bringing in the FBI , " Miller said .
Miller said the activity did not corrupt or modify the code for the product , which he declined to identify .
If any attempts to download or transfer the source code were made , such activity was not recorded in Microsoft 's logs , Miller said , adding that it is extremely unlikely any source code files were copied because of their immense size .
But some security experts questioned that assessment . "
It 's impossible to say with absolute certainty that file has not been copied , " according to Simon Perry , vice president of security solutions at Computer Associates International in Islandia , N.Y. " Over a 12-day period , it would be absolutely possible to take a copy of that . "
source code
Ray Pompon of Seattle-based Conjungi Networks , which installed some security tools for Microsoft in 1994 , agreed , saying , " Source code files can be very big , but they 're easily compressible . "
Microsoft has refused to say at what point it learned the hacker saw the source codes .
Pompon said whether the company discovered it immediately would depend on what type of monitoring it was doing , something the company has not disclosed .
Miller acknowledged the hacker could have been in the system for longer than 12 days , but he said the company is confident that high-level access occurred only between Oct. 14 and Oct. 25 .
But even with low-level access , the hacker could have accessed corporate e-mails and other confidential information , Miller said .
Microsoft has refused to identify what program the source code was for , except to say it was a product years from release -- not Windows or Office software .
Pompon said it 's less damaging to Microsoft that the product was not one already on the market . "
Microsoft can be more careful about what they 're going to release and make sure it 's not vulnerable , " he said .
Microsoft 's source codes are the most coveted in the multi billion-dollar industry .
With access to software blueprints , competitors could write programs that undermine Microsoft or use the data to identify weaknesses , making computer break-ins and virus-writing easier .




Score : The PlayStation 2 Story

There are basically two things you can call University of Kansas student Scott Kemper when he tells you how he legally made two grand after one night of work : One of them is " sales genius , " and the other is unprintable .
Sure , Kemper 's profiteering involved some help from Sony , which was kind enough to sink a few hundred million into R&D for its next-generation PlayStation 2 video-game system .
But despite the company 's huge investment , Sony made less than $ 300 on each of the three PS2 systems that Kemper bought after spending the night in line outside his local K-Mart .
Kemper sold his PS2s for $ 1,000 each -- pocketing a $ 700 net profit -- and he already has the money in his bank account .
Kemper did n't list his precious PS2s on eBay .
Although there have been stories of systems selling for thousands of dollars on the auction service , it 's likely that most of these are bogus .
" I noticed that some systems were going for enormously high prices , " Kemper said , " but when I looked at the bidders , I saw that there were a lot of people with Hotmail accounts , and they had the little sunglasses icon by their name . "
On eBay , sunglasses are the mark of novices .
In an auction involving such hot-selling products , it 's a good guess that a lot of these bespectacled characters are just cheats who signed on with fake e-mail addresses to bid up the price of PS2s .
For example , it 's unlikely that the PS2 that sold for $ 15,000 is for real .
For Pete 's sake , the system does n't even come with any games .
Kemper said that a lot of the PlayStation 2 auctions he looked at seemed to have been fixed .
So he knew that if he listed his three systems , he would have likely been schemed out of a good deal of money .
" So what I did was , I looked at all the people who had bid on a system but were n't among the top bidders , and I saw that some of them looked like they had legitimate addresses , " Kemper said .
bogus
And then he e-mailed these bidders , and made them an offer they could n't refuse . "
I said , ' Why are you wasting your time on an auction ?
I can sell you this system now .
' "




Gen Y 's Virtual Playground

NEW YORK -- Teens just want to have fun , and Jester.com wants to be the online playhouse that they 'll never want to leave .
The site blends entertainment and commerce into 2D and 3D spaces where kids can enjoy their favorite hobbies -- playing videogames , skateboarding , snowboarding and listening to music .
At a vendor schmooze-fest across town from Internet World , Jester.com this week showed off its fledgling site that plays to passions of the 13- to 20-year-old audience .
Kids choose an avatar that they use to navigate Jester 's ski slopes , skate parks , and music stores ; they can also pay a visit to their favorite bands .
Jester.com , which went live in May , is creating virtual worlds for dozens of bands that represent actual places from the artist 's experience , according to CEO John Textor .
For example , the Hippos chose the garage where they got started , he said .
Kids can walk through the garage , watch videos of the band , interact with other fans ' avatars , and buy stuff .
If there 's a poster on the wall , CD in the rack , or video on the TV that you like , just click to buy it .
Textor said the core audience is the upper half , of Generation Y , which is the most active section of the music-buying public .
18-24
He believes that building fan communities by focusing on providing entertainment will lead to sustainable e-commerce where traditional shopping has failed .
" We want to be the embodiment of the bands online , " said Textor .
Jester.com does n't sell " old people " music like Tom Jones or Michael Bolton , but focuses on bands such as Radiohead , BoySetsFire and the Dandy Warhols .
Texter said the company is pursuing relationships with other top acts including Dr. Dre and Eminem .
Textor said Jester recently signed up Napster foe Metallica to create an online rehearsal space where it will broadcast some practice sessions live .
Jester.com is working directly with bands and with Fanscape , which partners with the major labels , to build unique 3D sites .
In addition to interacting with a band 's online community and shopping , Jester also offers ski slopes and skate parks where extremers can tests their skills against one another .
Kids who do n't have their own credit cards can also set up an online bank account through VirtualBank.com .
which Textor also co-founded
Parents can transfer their kids ' allowance into the accounts , or kids can direct-deposit the paychecks from their after-school jobs .
Choosing the sports to highlight on Jester.com was easy since many of its employees are snowboarding and skateboarding fanatics , Textor said .
He also happens to own Sims Snowboards .
Worldly experience : Unlike the World Series that only included teams from the far boroughs of New York , Internet World featured competitors from around the globe .
IWorld hosted pavilions representing companies from Finland , Ireland , Israel , Germany and many others .
Snacker , from Frankfurt , Germany launched last week as the country 's first Internet-based food delivery service .
People who need their schnitzel fix in a hurry can order from over 2000 restaurants , according to Snacker CMO Sima Hoensbroech .
Hoensbroech said the company has watched the problems that have befallen U.S. food delivery firms such as Kosmo.com and Webvan.com , but she said the German market is different .
Customers there can n't order food online directly because restaurants can n't afford to stay online since there are no flat-rate Internet access plans .
Snacker will take the orders and fax them to the restaurants .
Eateries with delivery service will drop off the order themselves and Snacker will get a fee .
If the restaurants do n't deliver , then Snacker will .
Hoensbroech said the company is targeting German workers , who are adopting the habits of their U.S. counterparts by putting in longer hours and not stopping work to go out for lunch .
Snacker currently operates in Frankfurt and Berlin , and will be expanding to Munich , Cologne and possibly other European countries .
Ireland 's Eircom , the self-described " AT&T of the Emerald Isle " , was touting the country 's favorable business environment to U.S. companies looking to expand into Europe .
VP of marketing Jodi Brichta said Ireland just passed the U.S. as the world 's leading exporter of software , and that the country has a favorable corporate tax rate .
She also said that the Irish brogue is more soothing to American ears than Indian or Asian accents , which makes call centers in the country more U.S.-friendly .
Rubin avoids grilling : Former secretary of the treasury Robert Rubin adroitly deflected hostile questions from several audience members during a question and answer session following his speech on the Internet economy .
Rubin had them rolling in the aisles on numerous occasions , such as when one frustrated investor lashed out against the capital gains tax .
The questioner bemoaned the fact that 40 percent of any stock windfall " went down the drain , " while only a portion of losses could be written off .
Rubin said that capital gains taxes actually " goes to things like education and health services , " and his easy solution was " Do n't lose money . "
When one audience mischaracterized Rubin 's description of the Japanese economy as tanking , he accused the man of being with the press , and said that if it were really tanking , he would now recommend selling short , something he could n't do when he was busy putting the signatures on currency .
Rubin was asked how the U.S. economy would be different if he had stayed for the entire Clinton administration rather than leaving last year .
" Well , the stock market went up on the day I left , so Wall Street was happy with my decision , " he said .
Oh the humanity : Human resources personnel are often characterized as cold , unfeeling , even evil beings .
lack of
Employeematters.com wants to further dehumanize the HR experience by moving a company 's firing , hiring , payroll and benefits administration online .
Saleswoman Cara DeFrancesco said Employeematters.com targets small to mid-sized Internet companies that do n't have the time to deal with everyday personnel issues .
Employees can log in to check their benefits policies and view their vacation time and payroll accounts online rather than walking down the hall to the dreaded HR department .
DeFrancesco said that pushing through all of the paperwork digitally can automate 50 percent of HR employees ' work so that they can concentrate on recruiting and developing benefits packages .




Cheap Launch Ends in the Drink

A contest to spur the first citizen space launch ended soggily Sunday as the last team with a chance of winning the $ 250,000 prize saw its rocket plunge into the Gulf of Mexico far short of its goal .
After missing a morning launch opportunity because of problems with one of its onshore tracking stations , the Huntsville , Alabama-based High-Altitude Research Corp. made its attempt for the Cheap Access to Space prize about an hour before sunset .
CATS
The team , cruising on a research and utility ship about 250 miles south of Panama City , Florida , attempted to fire its rocket from a balloon-lofted gondola floating 76,000 feet above the sea at about 5 p.m. CST , the team said .
The so-called " rockoon " launch was designed to use less fuel to boost the 16-foot HARC rocket , with its 2-kilogram payload , to the prize-winning altitude of 200 kilometers .
125 miles
Team member Ronnie Lajoie , who monitored the launch using a video link from a tracking station in Mexico Beach , Florida , said that as soon as the rocket fired it was apparent something was wrong .
Images from the vehicle 's on-board camera suggested it was tumbling toward the water , and GPS data confirmed the rocket was descending rapidly .
" The rocket did indeed fire , but it tipped off to the side as it left the gondola , " Lajoie said Monday .
The apparent cause of the pinwheeling fizzle was that the plastic foam guides that were supposed to steer the rocket along the gondola 's launch rails failed .
" We do n't know what happened to the foam guides , " Lajoie said .
One possibility was that they froze to the rails in the minus-70 degree Fahrenheit cold at the rocket 's launch altitude .
Because of communications difficulties -- the team 's satellite phone and marine radio proved incapable of maintaining a ship-to-shore link , Lajoie said -- prospects for recovering what 's left of the rocket are in doubt .
The balloon and gondola landed in the water Monday morning about 40 miles east of the launch site .
The CATS competition , which opened in the fall of 1997 , ends Nov. 8 .
Several other teams , which ran into a variety of licensing and technical problems , pulled out of the competition over the last month .
David Anderman , the CATS prize administrator , reiterated Sunday that the competition will close next week .
" There will be no extensions -- we were n't kidding , " he said in a post to the CATS competitors bulletin board .
Anderman did not respond Sunday evening to requests for further comment .
Only one launch company , Mojave , California 's InterOrbital Systems , is equipped to try a launch before the deadline .
But its plans call for lifting off from a ship 175 miles west of Vandenberg Air Force Base , and InterOrbital cofounder Randa Milliron said that poor weather over the Pacific will make it impossible to launch by next week .
" But we have a license that 's good for a year , and we will launch , CATS Prize or no CATS Prize , " Milliron said Sunday .
She noted that another prize for amateur rocketry -- a $ 1,000 purse put up in 1995 by rocket researcher and space-commercialization activist Jim Bowery -- is still up for grabs .
" Maybe we 'll go for that , just for the honor of it , " she said .
Other CATS competitors have likewise vowed to press on despite the expiration of the prize .
Most , however , have said they will n't be ready for a new round of launches until late spring or early summer 2001 .




Music Stream Getting Crowded

Musicbank is just a short leap away from launching its on-demand , streaming service .
On Monday , Musicbank signed its fourth licensing deal with a major label -- this time with Sony Music -- leaving EMI and the music publishers as the only holdouts in the space .
EMI is expected to join the fold , but dealing with the music publishers is a bit stickier .
Terms of the deal were n't disclosed .
The Universal Music Group , BMG , and Warner Music have equity investments in the company in exchange for the licensing agreements .
Unlike competitor Mp3.com -- which recently obtained a license as part of an out-of-court settlement with the publishers -- Musicbank has been working with the National Music Publishers Association from the very beginning .
Musicbank CEO Michael Downing believes that will make a continuing relationship with all content providers run much smoother .
" Our position has always been there to pay the publishers , " Downing said . "
You do make a digital replication of the CD to put it on the servers , and that is a duplication , which involves a CD , so that publishers need to be involved .
" The challenge is there really is no basis for this model , and everyone is trying to figure that out .
Our stance has been that once we do get it figured out , and when everyone agrees on the fee rates , we 'll write a check . "
The streaming music company signed up encoding company Loudeye to digitize the 150,000 CDs it hopes to make available to consumers this fall .
The tracks , which include music from the four labels , will be encoded in Real Audio , with Windows Media to follow .
The label-friendly streaming service has also struck a partnership with the Virgin Megastores retail chain .
That deal lets consumers who purchase music at retail outlets from participating music labels to immediately access their music through a virtual jukebox .
Even with its current deals , Musicbank is going to face stiff competition from Mp3.com which is expected to re-launch its my.mp3.com service before the end of the year .
But Downing is n't worried that the press Mp3.com has generated and its brand name will hurt his business .
" That does n't concern me , " Downing said . "
It 's hard to get these licenses so I do n't think we 're going to see a lot of competitors .
Besides , there are 75 million people out there listening to music on the Web , so I think we 're going to be alright . "




Fingerprint Security Gets Handier

When Qualcomm CEO Irwin Jacobs got his laptop stolen last month at a conference , the technology to protect his information may already have been at his fingertips .
By using a biometric fingerprint scanner , Jacobs could have added a layer of security to his laptop , which he said contained proprietary information that was possibly valuable to foreign governments .
Jacobs ' loss is a cautionary tale for notebook computer users , and yet another reason it 's vital to use fingerprint scanners , which have come down in price and come up in efficiency , according to Don Meyer of notebook maker Compaq .
" Laptops are getting smaller , and so many professionals use them while they travel .
It 's so easy to just leave them behind in a taxi or have them stolen , " Meyer said .
Jacobs still has n't recovered his laptop .
At the time of the theft , it was reported that he was only using password protection , which Compaq 's Meyer said is just not enough anymore .
With a fingerprint scanner in place , it 's close to impossible to gain access to the computer 's information unless you 're the owner and the print matches up .
That 's why Compaq released a fingerprint scanner last week that costs $ 180 and fits any notebook computer .
CPQ
And unlike other scanners that attach by a cord , this one -- made by Identix -- comes on a card that plugs directly into the side of the computer .
The small plate where the user 's finger is scanned retracts into the notebook .
While there are a variety of biometric identification systems available today -- face , voice , retinal and iris scans among them -- fingerprint scanners are poised to dominate the market for PC security , according to analyst Jackie Fenn , of the Gartner research firm .
" They 're certainly the most established and the most proven of this kind of technology , " she said . "
Iris scanners are the most accurate , but fingerprint scanners have come way down in price . "
The scanners work by using a tiny camera to capture the print 's image .
Then , a series of algorithms convert the image into a unique " map " of the print 's twists , turns and bifurcations .
This map is encrypted and stored in the computer .
Most scanners cost between $ 100 and $ 150 .
IBM is also touting fingerprint identification as a great way for businesses to protect their information .
Making like a rock band , the company is conducting a 25-city world tour promoting its PC security package , of which fingerprint scanners are an integral part .
IBM
The scanners are made by digitalPersona , and plug by a cord into desktop PCs .
IBM said it would offer the scanners to laptop users soon .
DigitalPersona said its scanners are not hack-proof , but are close to it .
That 's because the scanner encrypts the fingerprint data even before it is transmitted to the hard drive , and because someone would have to develop a fake finger to trick the scanner .
" To combat this , you can set your computer to memorize more than one fingerprint , or a particular succession of prints -- for example , your left index followed by your right thumb , " digitalPersona 's George Myers said . "
It 's not likely someone could know your succession , and even if they did , that 's a lot of finger molds to make . "
Fake fingers aside , Fenn said another legitimate concern with the scanners is privacy .
" If someone gets a hold of your fingerprint data and starts using it , it 's not as if you can just get another fingerprint , like you can a password , " she said . "
That 's why it 's a good idea to use more than one security measure , like a fingerprint scan and a personal identification number or password . "




Becoming One With Your Robot

CAMDEN , Maine -- Humans merging with robots and other technologies is " inevitable , " says robotics pioneer Rodney Brooks .
However , a lot of work still needs to be done , and the toughest task may be making humans comfortable with becoming something other than human .
" I dont think were going to be the same species anymore , " he told attendees at the Camden Technology Conference .
The theme of this years conference is " Being Human in the Digital Age . "
Brooks is director of the Artificial Intelligence Lab at MIT and is the co-founder of iRobot , a company that will be putting a range of consumer robots on the market this fall .
One of these will be a " remote presence " robot with a video camera .
Users can leave the robot in their home , then access it online to check on the kids or on elderly parents , Brooks said .
Robots could also be used to let repair people into a home when no one is there .
But Brooks believes that the true beauty of these devices is that they can be used to project the repair person into the robot , allowing the robot to do the work .
" Just as weve been able to export mental labor , physical labor will begin to be exported around the world .
You dont have to be there to be there anymore , " he said .
Work is continuing at MIT to create robots that are much more like humans .
Brooks said his fellow researchers have been working with the robots so that they will be able to respond to social and verbal cues .
He showed a video tape of a robot being praised and responding with a smile ; when it was criticized , its eyes dropped in an expression of robotic shame .
However , Brooks admitted that the robots in his lab are not as sophisticated as he would like them to be .
" Robots are not really artificial creatures at this point .
But I believe we will be able to say that some time in the future . "
But there are some difficult questions to answer , like whether all robots should have consciousness or emotions .
" This is something that were going to grapple with more and more .
We dont want all robots to have emotions .
I dont want to feel bad about having a refrigerator working 24-hours a day , " said Brooks .
Another issue is getting people more comfortable with what Brooks sees as the inevitability of humans merging with machines .
He said that while some people express shock over the idea , it is happening already in various ways -- from cochlear implants that allow people to hear to electrodes being implanted in the brain to treat Parkinsons Disease .
He admitted that changing peoples attitudes could take a generation .
" These kids who are getting studs in their tongues right now , maybe their kids will rebel by getting a wireless Internet connection implanted . "
Brooks said humans need to forget fears of robots produced by decades of science fiction films and books . "
We dont have to fear robots taking over from us because there will be no us to take over from ... we will have become one with our machines . "
But not everyone buys that view .
Leonard Sweet , a professor of theology at Drew University , said researchers need to remember their place in the scheme of things .
" We are not the creator , God is the creator , " Sweet said earlier in the day at a session on ethics and self-interest .
" We need to start with the awareness that our creativity will go askew . "




How MS Played Cat and Mouse

SEATTLE -- When the first couple of new accounts popped up , the network administrators at Microsoft did n't pay too much attention .
Most likely , someone new did n't set them up properly .
Then a few more accounts appeared .
Then more .
Within a few days , there were about two dozen new accounts .
What 's worse , whoever was creating them started trying to upgrade their network privileges , including permission to view high-level files and their more-sensitive information .
That , according to sources familiar with the case , is when Microsoft called in its computer security team .
Company officials believe the hacker had access for about 12 days , but only to the source code , or blueprints , for a single product that is still in the early stages of development .
That contrasts to initial company statements that the hacker could have had access for up to five weeks .
But Microsoft officials admitted Monday that its computer experts were unable to track the infiltrator despite more than a week 's worth of electronic cat-and-mouse through the company 's network .
" We are continuing to work closely with law enforcement , " said company spokesman Rick Miller . "
Beyond that , we really can n't say much more . "
Miller acknowledged the hacker could have been in the system longer than 12 days but said the company is confident that high-level access occurred only between Oct. 14-25 .
Even with low-level access , the hacker could have accessed corporate e-mail and other confidential information , Miller said .
Mark Rasch , a former Justice Department official and now vice president of the Reston , Va.-based computer security firm Global Integrity , said Microsoft 's lack of success is common among the industry .
" Only the dumb ones get caught , " Rasch said . "
Microsoft 's experience is not atypical , especially if the bad guy was smart . "
Sources close to the case , who did not wish to be identified , told The Associated Press that the company managed to learn of the infiltration early .
While the hacker was able to create new accounts for himself , many computer networks build in that kind of flexibility so that midlevel managers can create accounts for new workers and teams .
" It 's tough because once the hacker creates the accounts , he can look like a normal person logging in , " Rasch said . "
So which accounts do you monitor ?
There 's always a chance you 'd miss one . "
After the network administrators reported the problem to Microsoft security on Oct. 14 , sources said the company monitored the various accounts as the hacker tried to upgrade his security clearances .
The hacker did manage to access the source code to one product , the company said .
Microsoft officials would not say whether the product had anything to do with Microsoft.NET , the company 's new strategy for products that work over the Internet instead of on a single computer .
" Theoretically , all of our products will be .NET in three to five years , " Miller said . "
But we can say for certain that it was not one of our core products . "
The company then tried to track the intruder on its own , sources said , but had little luck determining where his commands were coming from .
Hackers often use other computers across the Internet , often ones they have previously broken into , to " bounce " their data around to confuse trackers .
" There 's always a tradeoff between shutting them down and continuing to let them go while you investigate , " Rasch said .
After law enforcement joined the investigation on Oct. 26 , sources said there was little improvement .
Microsoft was forced to shut down all the questionable accounts and barred outside access to the network for a time to stop the hacker from accessing more confidential data .
The company believes that its systems are now secure again , but would not confirm how the breach took place in the first place .
Media reports have said the hacker used a " Trojan " a tool masquerading as an innocent file or program , usually sent through e-mail that requires the recipient to unknowingly click on it .




Napster to Develop Fee Service

Napster has a new business partner , Bertelsmann AG -- and with it comes the beginning of the evolution from free to fee .
The file-trading service that built its user base on free access to music will begin developing a multi-tiered system that will include a new subscription component .
In a Tuesday morning press conference in New York , Napster CEO Hank Barry said that while there will be some services that require payment , the basic service would remain free .
The new service , which has yet to be developed , would include a section where users could trade files for free and a membership section where higher-quality tracks could be downloaded .
Both sections would have links to Bertelsmann-owned online retailer CDNow , which would allow users to immediately purchase albums .
" This is not a new service .
We are going evolve this into a membership service , " Barry said . "
In a subscription , you pay money to get something .
In a membership , you pay to be a part of a community .
We think that with a $ 4.95 price-point you can generate revenues that are really compelling to artists and everyone involved . "
Over the course of the last 14 months , Napster has grown to a community of 38 million users who have had access to music free and on demand .
Comparing the new service to America Online 's transition into the subscription model , Barry said he is n't concerned that Napster 's user base will shrink now that the company plans to charge fees .
AOL
" This alliance is the right next step for Napster , " Barry said . "
Our community has told us they are anxious to move to the next level where artists can get paid for their work .
I can say that our user experience will continue to include a free , file-sharing section , as well as a secure membership-based section . "
The details have n't been hammered out , but ideas are clearly in the works .
" For consumers , we are looking to provide access to a database of music while making Napster easier to use , " said Andreas Schmidt , president and CEO of Bertelsmann 's e-commerce group , which struck the deal with Napster .




Hey Baby , What 's Your Sign-On ?

SAN FRANCISCO -- If you 're single and looking for a good time , come to CMP Media Group 's Web2000 Show .
Technology trade shows do n't seem to be the ultimate pickup joints , but this year 's Web2000 at the Moscone Center looks promising .
CMP Media Group will be lending Web-enabled Palm V devices to the first 350 people on a first-come , first-serve basis .
These 350 lucky recipients will then get busy checking class schedules , locating exhibits -- and hooking up .
Web2000 director Bridget Hart did n't rule out the possibility of attendees using the devices as matchmaking tools , but she stressed that the original intent for the devices is for people with similar professional interests to meet at the show .
More than 10,000 people are expected to attend the conference , which opens Wednesday and runs through Friday .
" When people choose to come to a trade show or conference , you make that choice specifically to have an interactive learning experience , " Hart said . "
You have opportunities that do n't exist when you 're reading a book or hitting a website . "
Here 's how the " matchmaker " program -- created by Centura Software -- works .
CNTR
Attendees who are interested in participating fill out a survey with 10 questions , including :
What position do you hold in your company ?
From where did you travel ?
Which of the following activities would you rather do ?
Which of the following influenced your decision to attend Web2000 Show ?
What do you hope to take away from Web2000 Show ?
What is your preferred operating system ?
At what level would you put yourself in corps competency ?
What issues keep you up at night ?
Which best describes the culture of your organization ?
What word would you use to describe yourself ?
Geek ?
Super hero ?
Cheerleader ?
Once Palm V holders agree to participate in the program , they are given a list of attendees " who are the best matches for them . "
They can then call , or send an instant message or e-mail to their matches .
" The feedback we 've gotten in the past is ' make it easier for me to meet people I have something in common with , ' " Hart said . "
They literally want you to hook them up .
" I have to admit that for a technical conference we have the highest female-to-male ratio .
I think this particular matchmaker will be a great hit . "
The show is also expected to hook up viewers with cutting-edge , interactive technology such as a sink that scans the user 's eye and reminds him or her to take medicine .
It can even reprimand the user for reaching out for the wrong medication .
An exhibitor will also display " Pocket Bargain Finder " -- a handheld device that scans bar codes , dials into the Internet and instantly returns a list of vendors with competitive prices .




The Big Sheep Belch Squelch

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- Think climate change , think sheep .
It 's not the most obvious link but it 's one that scientists in agricultural nations have to make .
That 's because sheep produce methane gas , the second-most important greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide .
and cattle
The Kyoto Protocol -- the 1997 addition to the United Nations climate change treaty -- commits signatories , among them New Zealand and France , to limiting their greenhouse-gas emissions .
So , in New Zealand and France , two groups of scientists have been finding out how to reduce the methane that sheep and cattle produce .
In New Zealand , an estimated 43 percent of New Zealand 's greenhouse gases are methane and almost all of that comes from the country 's 40 million sheep and 10 million cows .
In France , 15 percent of that country 's methane emissions come from the country 's ruminant stock .
It is n't actually the sheep that produce the gas , but rather microbes in the animals ' rumen , their first stomach .
Those microbes make the gas after feeding off the hydrogen produced by other bugs .
Before attempting any changes , scientists had to find out how important the production of methane is to sheep . "
There 's no point in getting rid of the methane if the sheep do not survive , " says New Zealand scientist Keith Joblin .
In France , Dr. Gerard Fonty and his team at the National Institute for Agricultural Research experimented to find out if sheep really did need the methane-producing microbes .
Lambs born by caesarian were reared in a sterile environment .
The animals were fed with sterile milk and fed with a solid sterile diet , Fonty said .
To mimic almost-real life , the sheep were inoculated with all the normal bacteria from the rumen of ordinary sheep , but minus the methane-producing bacteria .
The sheep kept growing as normal . "
We have reared sheep which do not produce methane for 18 months , and they grew well , " Fonty said .
Knowing sheep can survive without the methane-producing bacteria is an important first step .
Now , Fonty says , scientists have to find out how to kill off the methane-producing bugs in ordinary sheep .
Researchers also have to ensure their procedures can adapt to different methods of rearing sheep .
In the Northern Hemisphere , animals are fed mostly indoors on grain-based diets .
In New Zealand , sheep and cattle roam outside grazing on grass .
In New Zealand , scientists have been measuring the levels of methane coming out of grazing sheep .
They use halters around the mouth to measure the amount of methane the animal is expelling .
the end most of the gas comes out of
About 5 percent of grazing sheep produce up to 40 percent less methane than expected . "
We do n't know why that is , " Joblin said .
By understanding the role of the microbes in both sheep reared indoors and outdoors , the scientists hope to find a solution to the methane problem .
Whatever solution they arrive at , it 's important that the right microbes -- the ones that digest the sheep 's food -- are kept in place . "
That understanding could lead to natural methods for controlling it , " Joblin said .
As well as lowering greenhouse gases , the researchers think they can improve the performance of the animals .
The methane produced is a loss of energy from the animal , energy that could be directed by the animal into producing milk , wool or meat .
If the scientists are successful , " the environment wins , the farmer and the producer win , " Joblin said .




Bill Joy Hopes Reason Prevails

CAMDEN , Maine -- Bill Joy believes theres still time to put the genie back in the bottle , to minimize the potential dangers posed by robotics , nanotechnology and genetics .
However , he doesnt think his fellow speakers at the Camden Technology Conference agree with him that putting self-imposed limits on this kind of research will make a difference .
" We have to put safeguards in to manage these technologies .
...
We have to move beyond the scientific fatalism that accompanies the Darwinian world view , " said Joy , the co-founder of Sun Microsystems .
Joy expanded on ideas from his long essay that first appeared in Wired magazine earlier this year called " Why the Future Doesnt Need Us . "
The theme of this years Camden conference , which wound up Sunday , was " Being Human in the Digital Age . "
Joy said that while such technologies offer much , including freeing many from poverty and " grinding physical labor , " there are also inherent dangers .
Although some have misinterpreted his arguments as calling for a ban on some types of research , Joy said he is simply calling for a return to common sense .
" Reason taught us how to develop these tools and if we dont use our reason to manage them , we do so at our own peril , " Joy said during his one-hour address .
The ever-increasing processing speeds of computers are playing a key role in this , because they allow scientists to process vast amounts of information quickly , as in the human genome project .
Joy said advances in molecular electronics could lead to a new generation of powerful computers that could perform a calculation in eight hours that would take present-day computers a millennium .
" This exceeds our computational power like an atomic bomb exceeds the power of a matchstick , " he said .
However , such computational power can put the potential applications of genetics , nanotechnology and robotics in the hands of individuals .
" The danger , if we give everyone unlimited power , is extremely grave .
...
By giving this power to everyone , we will also be giving it to the crazy people and the extremists , " Joy said .
Scientists cant simply shrug their shoulders and disassociate themselves from the implications of their work , Joy said , especially when people like philosopher John Leslie conclude that the risk for extinction of the human race is at least 30 percent .
" If we have a double-digit chance of something bad happening , we need to think about what were going to do , " Joy said .
Joy suggested assessing technologies to gauge their implicit dangers , as well as having scientists refuse to work on technologies that have the potential to cause harm .
Moderator David Kaplan , the author of The Silicon Boys and Their Valley of Dreams , asked Joy if such a strategy would be effective if not all scientists agreed to go along with it .
" We cant reduce the risk to zero , but that doesnt mean we shouldnt try to reduce them at all , " Joy responded .
While self-regulation may not work , some speakers said it would be preferable to government regulations .
In one of the conferences earlier sessions , Rush Kidder , the founder and president of the Institute for Global Ethics , said getting the government involved would be a bad idea .
" Once you start regulating innovation , the innovation drains out and all you are left with are the regulations , " Kidder said .
Perhaps a wiser approach , he added , would be to focus on ethics .
Kidder said that when he was a reporter for the Christian Science Monitor he was the first Western journalist to visit Chernobyl , three years after the disaster there .
What he wrote was not a story of simple errors leading to a meltdown , but a story of " profound moral collapse . "
" One of the phenomena of our age is the capacity of our technology to leverage our morality , " he added .
The conference , which is in its fourth year , is becoming more and more popular , organizers said .
So popular , in fact , that they had to turn away 50 to 60 people .
An estimated 500 people attended .
Conference organizers have already announced the theme for next years conference : " Online , Everywhere , All the Time : How it Will Change Our Lives . "




Eek !
A Two-Button Mac Mouse ?

The news could n't be more shocking if the Catholic church suddenly announced it was embracing contraception : Apple is moving to a two-button mouse .
Sharp-eyed beta testers of Apple 's new operating system , Mac OS X , have noticed that the pre-release software supports mice featuring more than one button .
In the world of the Mac zealot , this is huge .
Apple 's famous one-button mouse is as symbolic of the easy-to-use Macintosh interface as the icons and windows .
But these days , it is often derided as a hopelessly outdated anachronism and the debate -- one button or two ?
-- has been raging in Mac circles for a while now .
To its devotees , the one-button mouse represents elegant simplicity .
To detractors , Apple is the only computing platform among dozens still clinging stubbornly to an archaic tradition .
AAPL
Those who would do away with the one-button mouse say it prevents easy access to commands that in other operating systems are available with a simple " right click . "
Instead , Mac users risk their carpal tunnels by constantly scrawling across the screen to menu bars at the top .
John Bafford , a Web developer who runs OS X Talk , an information clearing house for Mac OS X , was one of the first to notice that the new operating system supports multi-button mice , as well as a scrolling mouse wheel .
Presently , support for multiple mouse buttons is only built into Cocoa , the part of the operating system for writing and running pure Mac OS X software , Bafford said .
But he noted Apple will be adding it to Carbon , that part dealing with older Mac software that has been modified to run on the platform .
The upshot : " There 's no specific date but they are adding it to Mac OS X , " he said .
Mac OS X , which is currently in public beta testing , is due to be released early next year .
In an admirable example of doublespeak , an Apple spokewoman simultaneously confirmed and denied support for mice with multiple buttons in OS X.
" Mac OS X will provide support for a variety of USB input devices such as game controllers , joysticks and trackballs , including third-party input devices that might have multiple buttons , " said spokeswoman Alicia Awbery .
" But at this point we have not announced any plans for Apple to offer a two-button mouse and as you know , we do n't comment on unannounced products . "
Bruce Tognazzini , founder of Apple 's famous Human Interface Group and a frequent interface critic , said the move to a two-button mouse is about time .
" The two-button mouse is seven or eight years overdue , " he said . "
There 's no point of harming the efficiency and behavior of the system any more by having a one-button mouse . "
The one-button mouse , introduced in 1984 with the original Macintosh , was central to the Mac 's ease-of-use philosophy .
The " father of the Macintosh , " Jef Raskin , recalls fighting with other members of the Mac design team for a single-button mouse .
Apple based its mouse on a three-button model developed at Xerox 's famous PARC research center .
" It was faster and more efficient , and much easier to learn and remember how to use , " Raskin wrote in a memoir . "
I had observed that people at PARC often made wrong-button errors in using the mouse , which was part of my impetus for doing better . "
including myself
David Morgenstern , a Mac veteran and former editor of MacWeek , said Raskin did n't even want the mouse to " double-click " -- he wanted a one-button , one-click device .
" Mac users have always said Windows is so complicated you need another button to get to all the features , " he said . "
But 95 percent of the world uses a two-button mouse .
It certainly is the natural evolution of the Mac 's interface .
People like the two-button mouse , so why should they be denied ? "
Third-party developers have added " right click " functions to Mac software for some time .
Users of most Web browsers can bring up " right click " menus by simply holding down the mouse button .
And mouse manufacturers like Kensington , which makes a line of popular multi-button mice for the Mac , have developed software that adds " right-click " functions .
Even Apple seems aware of the shortcomings of the one-button mouse .
In recent years , the company has added " contextual menus " to the Macintosh operating system .
But to activate them , users must hold down the control key while pressing down the mouse button , which more or less defeats the purpose .




Privacy Firm Tries New Gambit

.
Editor 's note : This story was updated on Nov. 10 , 2000 , to correct the title of one of the sources quoted in the story , as well as to clarify the reporter 's speculation on Zero Knowledge 's sales figures
WASHINGTON -- Zero Knowledge Systems seems to have finally realized a harsh truth : Internet users do n't like to pay extra to protect their privacy .
The Montreal-based firm won acclaim for its sophisticated identity-cloaking techniques , but very few people appear to have paid the $ 49.95 a year to cloak their online activities from prying eyes .
That 's not exactly a heartening prospect for a company with 250 employees to pay and $ 37 million in venture capital funds to justify -- especially when already high-strung investors have become nervous about Internet companies that have never made a profit .
Zero Knowledge 's solution : the kind of privacy consulting service it announced on Tuesday .
Through it , the company hopes to capitalize on the growing privacy concerns of both consumers and businesses -- and , most importantly , finally enjoy some revenues .
" This is a new focus for Zero Knowledge : helping businesses build in privacy technologies in how they deal with customer data flow , " Zero Knowledge President Austin Hill said in a telephone interview .
" As customer expectations have increased with privacy , and how governments have started to regulate some privacy standards ... all of a sudden , companies are having to think , ' Hold on , how do I build in privacy ?
' " Hill said .
Hill and his staff of technologists -- including veterans like cryptologists Stefan Brands and Ian Goldberg -- are n't alone in eyeing the privacy-consulting business as a lucrative one .
Many of the established consulting businesses such as PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst and Young offer privacy services .
IBM (IBM)launched such a business in 1998 , and an Andersen Consulting representative says that privacy awareness is " a component of almost anything we do . "
Hill says one of the advantages Zero Knowledge has over rivals is the technologies that it will license on an ongoing basis to customers .
The company owns intriguing patents on technology developed by Brands that permits partial disclosure of one 's identity .
Areas where such techniques might be useful , Hill says , include health care and financial services , where businesses are required by law to tread particularly lightly .
He anticipates his company will " help maintain and manage on an ongoing basis . "
privacy systems
" There certainly is a need for companies specializing in privacy consulting and privacy technologies , " says Simson Garfinkel , who is on the advisory board of Privada , a competitor .
" This is a very ambitious play , however , and I 'm not sure the market can justify it right now .
" It 's my view that we 'll have privacy legislation in the U.S. some day , " Garfinkel says . "
That will make the Zero Knowledge technology very valuable .
But that some day could be in five years or 20 years . "
Zero Knowledge 's announcement met with mixed reaction among cypherpunks , a loosely organized group of crypto-buffs and libertarian types that provided some of the company 's earliest employees .
" That seems like a sensible idea , but I 'm a little skeptical that they 'll pull it off when competing with big , well-known accounting firms , " says cypherpunk Greg Broiles . "
The accounting firms have built reputations around maintaining client confidentiality , while ZKS has been pretty aggressively and conspicuously hiring wild-eyed cypherpunk types , who will n't necessarily inspire a lot of confidence or trust in accountant and risk-manager types . "
Zero Knowledge 's Hill stressed that his firm is not abandoning its Freedom product , but refused to discuss revenue flow or sales of Freedom .
As a privately held company , it is not obligated to reveal such figures .
" We 're very very pleased with the results we 've had for Freedom so far , " Hill said . "
It 's a small percentage of what we expect . "
Conversations with industry insiders and Zero Knowledge officials , who asked not to be identified , suggest that sales are lagging far below expectations .
But although many cypherpunks and security buffs like the idea of Freedom , few seem to use it , citing sluggishness and compatibility problems .




Listen.com to Buy Scour 's Assets

Online music company Listen.com said Wednesday it has agreed to buy the assets of Scour , the Internet search engine company partly owned by Michael Ovitz , which declared bankruptcy in early October .
The terms of the purchase were not disclosed .
The agreement was filed Wednesday for court approval in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California in Los Angeles .
The sale will give Listen.com control of Scour 's assets but will not make it responsible for Scour 's legal liabilities , Listen.com chief executive Rob Reid said .
In July , the Motion Picture Association of America , the Recording Industry Association of America and the National Music Publishers Association sued Scour for alleged copyright infringement .
Scour filed its voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition Oct. 12 , 2000 .
The filing automatically stayed all pending litigation against the company , it said .
" We believe that Listen.com can develop Scour 's assets into a means to distribute multimedia content in a way that respects rights-holders , " Reid said .
---
Second resignation at Eidos : Eidos said its chief executive Charles Cornwall has left the British computer games maker , which made him the second top manager to go in less than a month .
Chief operating officer Michael McGarvey replaced Cornwall , but the search is still on for a chief finance officer to replace Jeremy Lewis who quit last month .
Both left to pursue other interests , the company said .
" Cornwall ... has asked to be released to spend more time on his technology and mining interests in the USA and South Africa and has stepped down with immediate effect , " the company said .
McGarvey told a telephone news conference that Cornwall had been distracted by other interests for about half a year -- one of the most turbulent periods in the short life of the company that created Tomb Raider cyber-icon , Lara Croft .
Eidos has warned this year that profits will not meet market expectations , due to delays in getting games to markets and the late arrival of key consoles on which they can be played , such as Sony 's new PlayStation 2 .
Its stock dipped slightly on the news but then recovered to 286 pence by 1210 GMT , up 2.3 percent on the day and roughly where it was before the announcement .
---
Covad CEO puts in papers : Broadband services provider Covad Communications Group said chairman and chief executive Robert Knowling has resigned , two weeks after the company reported a larger-than-expected third quarter loss .
The company named Frank Marshall as its interim chief executive and said founder and former CEO Charles McMinn would assume the role of chairman .
Knowling said that new leadership would be in the company 's best interest .
Shares of Covad closed on the Nasdaq Tuesday at $ 5 9/32 , just off its all-time low and down more than 90 percent from its last - March high above $ 66 .
The company held its initial public offering in January 1999 .
In mid-October , Covad reported a larger-than-expected third quarter net loss of $ 189.9 million , or $ 1.22 per share , and said that several of its customers were having trouble paying their bills .
---
$ 2.2 billion tech agreement : Information technology services company Computer Sciences said it signed a $ 2.2 billion information technology agreement with British defense contractor BAE Systems .
The six-year agreement , which extends to November 2006 , supersedes a current contract between the two companies scheduled to expire in March 2004 .
Computer Sciences will now manage BAE 's full range of information technology infrastructure operations in the United States and the United Kingdom .
BAE was formed last year when Marconi Electronic Systems and British Aerospace merged .
---
NewsCom to combine with Presslink : Tribune Media Services , a unit of publisher Tribune and media group Knight Ridder , said they have agreed to combine Tribune Media Services ' online content agency , NewsCom , and Knight Ridder 's online photography agency , PressLink .
The two companies will create a joint venture to manage the new company that will be headquartered in Los Angeles .
NewsCom , formerly part of Times Mirror , became a unit of Tribune Media Services following the recent merger of Tribune and Times Mirror .
---
WorldCom plans revamp strategy : Data and telephone services company WorldCom unveiled plans to realign its businesses , creating two separately traded tracking stocks , WorldCom and MCI , which will reflect the value of the distinct customer bases they serve .
The move represents a strategic shift for WorldCom , which is reeling from a flagging stock price and its failed $ 120 billion acquisition of smaller rival Sprint .
It also comes soon after long-distance rival AT&T announced a massive overhaul of its operations .
Under the board-approved plan , WorldCom stock will track the main growth drivers of the company , such as data , Internet and international services , the company said .
These businesses represented $ 4.1 billion of revenue during the three-month period that ended Sept. 30 , it said .
---
Amazon to explore Japan : Amazon unveiled its Japanese site Amazon.co.jp in an aggressive push to crack open Japan 's cozy book retailing market .
AMZN
In its first retailing venture in Asia , Amazon will offer 1.7 million titles on its Japanese language website , which is nearly identical to its U.S. version , but with the tabs for other product lines such as videos , CDs , electronic goods and gardening tools conspicuously absent .
" We 're ready to go -- this is the second-largest market in the world , " said chief executive Jeff Bezos .
Amazon.co.jp said it would expand its product line beyond its 1.1 million Japanese titles and 600,000 English titles some time over the next year .
---
Sega shifts to software : Japanese video game maker Sega said it aims to boost its share of the global market for video-game software to 25 percent , shifting its focus to software from loss-making hardware .
Sega unveiled a far-reaching strategy last Friday that included plans to provide game software for rival makers ' consoles .
It will also license its mainstay Dreamcast game console 's design technology to makers of personal computers and cell phones , to increase compatible PCs and other devices .
" We aim to win the top share of the world market in the near future by increasing the number of platforms which can operate Sega software , " strategic counsel Tetsu Kayama told a news conference , setting a new goal to boost its market share to 25 percent from the current 4.2 percent , surpassing Nintendo 's current 19.6 percent .
---
Break-up in Japan : Japanese e-mail service provider Crayfish said it would cancel a business partnership with its major shareholder , troubled Hikari Tsushin .
The move was aimed at reducing Crayfish 's dependence on Hikari Tsushin , which sells the e-mail service Hitmail , on behalf of Crayfish , the company said .
Crayfish paid at least 2.4 billion yen in sales commissions to its partner in the 12 months that ended in September , Jiji news agency said .
$ 22.06 million
The decision to separate would reduce costs for Crayfish by halting payments to Hikari , and enable it to provide Hitmail at lower fees .
The Hitmail service signed up about 59,000 customers as of the year-end in September , which accounted for most of Crayfish 's estimated sales of 6.7 billion yen for the year .
---
E-mmediate gratification : Kozmo.com has launched a new gift giving feature that allows consumers in 11 cities around the country to purchase any item on the website , send it as a gift , and have the recipient get it immediately .
" Last-minute shoppers will be able to place an order even on Christmas day and it will be delivered right away , " said Gerry Burdo , president and CEO of the company .
Reuters contributed to this report




Asia 's Next Tech Hub : Singapore

HONG KONG -- Singapore has officially launched its bid to compete with other Asian countries to become the No. 1 technology hub in the region following a government announcement that it will inject S$7 billion into the tech and science sector over the next five years .
The government also announced the creation of a biomedical and science and engineering research council that will manage public-sector research and development .
The announcement by Singapore 's National Science and Technology Board that it will increase its tech funding by 75 percent was cheered by the industry and analysts .
It also heats up the competition for tech supremacy with Hong Kong , which has its own aggressive plan to be a new-economy hub .
" I came to Singapore because the government has always had a very strong sense of purpose of where it stands and where the country is going towards , " says Jim James , the founder of dot-com startup go-events.com .
Go-events.com , like most other Internet startups in Singapore , has benefited from frequent , government-sponsored forums called Techventure .
The government also plays matchmaker between Internet startups and venture capitalists , and is generous with seed money .
The NSTB 's latest announcement fortifies a dramatic shift the 9-year-old board made two years ago when it launched its original tech plan , which included an infusion of $ 1 billion in overseas talent and capital .
Other new incentives that the government has implemented since 1999 include extensive tax holidays , a speedier process for attaining a work visa , discounts on prime office space , subsidized space for Internet startups and , most recently , subsidized government flats designed for foreigners and expatriates .
The initiatives appear to be paying off .
Last year there were an estimated 500 startups in the Lion City , a 70 percent rise from the year before .
Approximately 200 of the startups received seed money averaging S$200,000 and totaling S$250 million .
Among the early winners : music portal Soundbuzz.com , in which EMI recently took a 5 percent stake .
Another company taking advantage of Singapore 's liberal tech policies is SAS International , one of the world 's largest dataware housing companies .
SAS began to use Singapore as a regional hub about a year ago , and the company says that because of government support , overhead runs 30 percent lower than in Hong Kong .
Hong Kong is n't sitting idly by .
In July , the city set up the Innovation and Technology Commission , which also has a fund that invests in promising startups .
ITC Commissioner Francis Ho says that Singapore may have better marketing , but in the end Hong Kong comes out ahead with its entrepreneurial spirit . "
When there are kids with colored hair and body rings in Singapore I 'll begin to worry , " Ho said .
But Sybase CEO John Chen says that after looking at several Asian cities as research hubs , his company chose Singapore .
Chen thinks that the Hong Kong government could take some lessons from Singapore .
" We decided that Singapore came out ahead .
Part of it is government attitude , but the other part is Singapore has about 12 universities that actually do some research and they have a community , " he says . "
Of course , Singapore does a better marketing job than the Hong Kong government . "




How to Be a Net-Savvy Santa

Last year , the Grinch stole Christmas for a lot of online shoppers .
There were widespread reports of gifts arriving late , if at all , and e-commerce websites melted down like icicles in August .
It was the first big test for e-commerce sites , and a lot of them failed miserably .
Now these purveyors of everything from appliances to Zen gardens face their next big make-or-break test .
With 6 million new customers attempting to shop online this season , according to Jupiter Communications , the retail sites have a considerable amount of pressure to perform .
Of course , online shopping is not that different from shopping at the local mall : Arm yourself with a list and credit card and you 're ready to spend some serious dough .
But there are some Net-specific pitfalls .
If you 're planning to shop online for holiday gifts , here are some tips to make it as stress-free as possible :
Is It Customer-Friendly ? : Last year , online shopping was marred by poor customer service .
To avoid problems , make sure a site has an e-mail and mailing address , and telephone number of a customer service hotline before you order .
A live , online help button is another indication of a customer-friendly site .
Reputable businesses will have earned a seal of approval from sites like the Better Business Bureau Online and BizRate.com .
If a site proves to be unreliable , you can file a complaint with BBBOnLine .
Christmas Morning Mimosas : If you plan to order a nice bottle of bubbly or a fruity chardonnay for the wine connoisseur on your list , check direct shipping laws first .
Regulations vary by state .
If sites like Wine.com and Wineshopper.com do n't stock the vintage you seek , the individual vineyard often will have its own site and ordering system .
Shop Shorter : Retailers like J. Crew and Lands ' End offer a shopping shortcut for their catalog subscribers .
Online shoppers can skip search time by plugging in an item 's assigned catalog number , then proceeding to the checkout cart .
For those who can n't wait to get that new laptop , at CircuitCity.com , customers can enter their zip code and find out if the item they want is available at their local store .
" For high-ticket purchases it makes a lot of sense because consumers may not be comfortable buying an expensive product online , " said Heather Dougherty , a retail analyst with Jupiter . "
It 's a great immediate-fulfillment opportunity . "
The Perfect Santa Suit Fit : Lands ' End also offers a tool where customers can plug in their measurements , hair and eye color , hairstyle , face shape , etc. , and create a virtual model of themselves .
Shoppers then use the model to try on clothes .
In addition , the " Lands ' End My Virtual Model Tour , " a truck outfitted with scanning equipment , is visiting 14 cities across the United States so customers can create a more precise model of themselves .
Like Levi 's , the company offers body scanning to help customers achieve a more accurate fit .
Ship-shape : Pay attention to cutoff dates for shipping , Dougherty warns .
Since Christmas falls on a Monday , customers will want to order by Dec. 12 for regular ground shipping .




Intel : Bluetooth Is Viable

SAN FRANCISCO -- Intel on Wednesday defended the much-maligned Bluetooth wireless low-power radio chip , saying it 's possible to coexist with technologies transmitting data on competing systems .
When Bluetooth was introduced about a year ago , many heralded it as a breakthrough in short-distance wireless transmission .
But after more powerful and longer-range wireless standards emerged -- including 802.11b and Home Radio Frequency -- critics wondered whether Bluetooth had become obsolete before it hit the mass market .
Bluetooth Special Interest Group members believe otherwise -- even though their technology can interfere with popular 802.11b products by manufacturers such as Apple and Lucent Technologies .
" It depends on the environment and distances they want to use the device and speed they want to use it .
For Bluetooth , unless you add amplification to it , it 's really a 10-meter device , " said Rob Weber , director of market development for Motorola .
Bluetooth allows you to beam information from one device to another within 33 feet , and runs slowly at 1 mbs .
" If you look at HomeRF you see it in a whole house , " Weber said . "
And 802.11b ... is a wireless ethernet . "
Intel was just one of the groups at this year 's Web2000 Show at the Moscone Center touting Bluetooth -- which , unlike HomeRF , can be used outside of the home .
INTC
A longtime point of contention has been whether they all can work together in a home .
In a home , Bluetooth would be compatible with HomeRF but not 802.11b .
The problem lies in the system of how data is transmitted .
Bluetooth , like HomeRF , transmits data on a frequency-hopping system where signals " hop " around a channel to send packets of data .
The 802.11b system uses direct sequence -- or a fat channel -- to input larger amounts of data .
Intel demonstrated that Bluetooth can indeed be used with 802.11b .
The company used an 802.11b-enabled laptop as a proxy for a Bluetooth-enabled laptop .
" I 'm not saying there are no issues , " said Yury Reznikov , marketing technical engineer for platform marketing at Intel . "
But the problem has been overblown . "
The battle for supremacy between HomeRF and 802.11b is another matter : They 've been at each other 's throats because of the conflicting standards .
WECA tried to bar HomeRF from gaining more bandwidth to increase the speeds of its services on the grounds that there would be interference .
The Federal Communications Commission shot down that request a couple months ago .
As for the question of where Bluetooth fits in , Reznikov echoed Weber and others in the industry who say that Bluetooth will appeal to consumers because of its mobility .
A HomeRF or 802.11b network may give users wireless Internet access at home , but a Bluetooth-enabled phone could give users Net access outdoors .
" I think Bluetooth will become more of a ' piconet , ' tight personal-area network -- almost like a remote control , " Weber said . "
If I 've downloaded a couple things from the Net , instead of plugging my computer and printing it out , I could beam information from my handheld to a computer . "
Plus , Bluetooth is cheap -- about $ 5 a chip -- and uses a low-power radio frequency safe for a phone or personal digital assistant .
While members of the industry admit they 've been smoothly riding on Bluetooth 's hype , analysts have said they see Bluetooth living up to it in the long run .
International marketing consulting company Frost & Sullivan pegged the revenue of Bluetooth chipsets in 2006 at $ 2.3 billion and said it would " outperform " the Wireless LAN and HomeRF sectors .
local area network




Asteroid ?
Something 's Out There

LOS ANGELES -- Scientists have spotted a small asteroid or a piece of space junk that they say has a 1-in-500 chance of hitting the Earth in 30 years -- far greater odds than any similar object ever discovered .
If it is an asteroid and it hits the planet , " it would be equivalent to a fairly sizable nuclear blast , " said Donald Yeomans , manager of the Near-Earth Object Program Office at NASA 's Jet Propulsion Laboratory .
For now , though , that is " fairly low in terms of concern , " he said .
The object , designated 2000 SG344 , is believed to be 98 to 230 feet long .
It was discovered Sept. 29 through a telescope in Hawaii .
The chance of a collision is about a thousand times greater than for any other asteroid-like object yet discovered , said Paul Chodas , principal engineer of the NASA office .
Current projections are that it will made it closest approach to Earth on Sept. 21 , 2030 , but miss the planet by 15 times the distance between the Earth and moon .
However , scientists are uncertain about the exact orbit , and can not rule out the possibility of a collision .
More observations are needed to pin down the object 's size ; right now , it is just a bright spot in space .
But if it turns out to be an asteroid , more than 23,000 tons of rocks could come hurtling through the atmosphere .
The orbit is circular , close to the sun and in about the same plane as Earth 's .
That is unusual for an asteroid , leading to suspicions that it might be a used rocket stage , possibly one jettisoned from an Apollo launch in the 1970s , scientists said .
In that case , the object would have much less mass and would not pose any danger to Earth because it would burn up in the atmosphere .
The object is about 8.4 million miles from Earth .
The object 's discovery is the product of an asteroid-hunting program that found more than 8,600 more benign objects in September alone .




High Speed Net Launched in Space

Starband Communications ' satellite launch may not be quite as revolutionary as Sputnik 's first earth orbit , but the company can claim to have won its own space race .
On Monday Starband beat out several well-funded ventures including Hughes Networks , Teledesic and WildBlue by offering the first service that provides faster-than-dialup access both to and from the Internet .
The Starband service offers 500 Kbps downstream and 150 Kbps upstream according to spokeswoman Sandy Colony .
from the Internet to the PC
Colony said Radio Shack is packaging the Starband service with new Compaq computers for $ 59.95 , but does not offer upgrade products for PCs .
The service is also being sold as part of a package by resellers of Echostar 's satellite TV service , the Dish Network .
DISH
Colony said the service was being beta tested by 10,000 customers across North America , and consumer installations would begin this week .
Starband is a joint venture from partners Gilat Satellite Networks , Microsoft , EchoStar Communications , and ING Furman Selz Investments .
MSFT
Starband has been in a tight race with Hughes Networks to be the first to provide an operational two-way service .
Hughes ' DirecPC service currently offers 400 Kbps downstream access , but requires a dialup modem connection for the upstream .
Hughes will be demonstrating its own two-way service at Comdex starting Nov. 13 , and the company will be making the service available by the end of the year , according to executive vice president Paul Gaske .
Gaske said that DirecPC customers can purchase a second antennae that will enable PCs to send data out at 128 Kbps and eliminate the need for the dialup connection .
Gaske said the service will be available in the 48 continental states , but pricing has not been determined .
In October , Hughes and America Online said that the AOL Plus multimedia content service will be distributed over the DirecPC system .
Starband and Hughes have a window of opportunity in offering services to customers now while the more ambitious Teledesic and WildBlue projects are still ramping up , according to Jupiter Communications senior analyst Joe Laszlo .
Laszlo said Teledesic plans to deliver the Internet via satellite at broadband speeds of up to 5 Mbps downstream and 1 Mbps upstream , but it will not likely go live until 2004 .
WildBlue , is building a 3 Mbps service and is targeting an early 2002 launch .
formerly iSky
Teledesic , which is heavily funded by Microsoft 's Bill Gates , Motorola , and telecommunications visionary Craig McCaw , has struggled to get going .
In October Motorola pulled out of its contract to build the satellites for the venture , which has seen repeated delays .




Online Polls in GOP Hands ?

About a month ago , some Republicans were a little bit nervous .
The first presidential debate was looming , and their man was n't favored to win .
To hear the pundits tell it , Texas Gov. George W. Bush was n't even favored to get his name right , let alone stand a chance against Vice President Al Gore , the human Eniac .
It turned out that Bush got his name right , Gore sighed a lot , and most opinion-makers called the debate a draw , with some giving a slight edge to Gore .
The tracking polls , however , told a different story : Bush pulled ahead of Gore , and he has n't relinquished his lead since .
Some of Bush 's acceleration in the polls was likely due to the efforts of Larry Purpuro , the deputy chief of staff of the Republican National Committee .
His other title , though unofficial , is RNC " technology czar , " and over the last year Purpuro has been cobbling together a list of Republican e-mail addresses that has become one of the key factors in the campaign .
Purpuro 's list also might have helped Bush emerge as the popular victor after the first debate .
The message e-mailed to GOP faithful after the debate was simple : Go to CNN , MSNBC , and other Internet news sites , and make yourselves known .
Vote early , and often , in the online polls .
" On CNN , I think we were ahead 2-to-1 at one point , " Purpuro said .
And to the extent that online polls matter in changing a campaign 's " momentum " by indicating , at the very least , which candidate 's supporters feel more strongly , the Republicans beat the Democrats handily .
By the second debate , nobody was asking whether Bush would get his name right .
" We started in July of 1999 with about 17,000 e-mails , " Purpuro said , referring to the project he heads at the RNC , called " e.GOP . "
Purpuro is charged with getting the party wired , and he said that one of his priorities has been assembling the e-mail list .
Now , with the million-name list , the party can target messages to its constituents based on geography , age , and gender .
And when it comes to fund raising , they can sort even finer than that .
The Democrats , too , have such an e-mail list , though they did not return calls for comment about their online efforts .
In the past , Democratic National Committee representatives have said their list numbers in the hundreds of thousands .
That 's not a small number , but it is n't a million .
If future political campaigns come down to which candidate can get his message out faster , to more people , and with less cost , then the GOP could come out ahead .
" More and more , we see the Internet being used for organizing activists , " said Tami Buhr , a research coordinator at Harvard 's Shorenstein Center for the Press , Politics and Public Policy , which conducts an election awareness project called Vanishing Voter .
She said that activists are a good target group , because the people who tend to get campaign information from the Internet today are generally a political group .
" I do n't know if anyone is going to georgewbush.com to figure out how they 're going to vote , " she said , suggesting that if you 're a frequent visitor to the governor 's site , you 've probably decided you 'll be voting for him .




Crackers Attack Pro-Israeli Site

WASHINGTON -- Pakistani-based hackers attacked a U.S. website belonging to a pro-Israel lobby Wednesday , stealing credit card numbers and member records in the latest volley in what has become an online war .
The attack , against the American-Israel Public Affairs Committee , consisted of the hackers defacing its website with pro-Palestinian slogans and e-mails downloaded from the webite databases .
The lobby confirmed the attack and has reported it to the FBI , according to The Washington Post , which reported the story Friday with The New York Times .
The Pakistan Hackerz Club , which consists of at least two members known as " Doctor Nuker " and " MrSweet , " took responsibility for the attack and their logo appeared on the defaced website , which has since been repaired .
The hackers wrote : " The hack is to protest against the atrocities in Palestine by the barbarian Israeli soldiers and their constant support by the U.S. government .
Instead of writing articles or putting pictures of Israel 's atrocities in Palestine , this time I 've put e-mails and comments that I got from the website . "
The comments , downloaded from the website itself , were pro-Palestinian .
The hackers also downloaded the credit card information and made the numbers public on other websites run by the club .
An AIPAC official told The Post that the 700 affected members have been notified of the incident .
B.K. DeLong , a staff member of Attrition.org , which records website defacements , told the Associated Press Friday that this form of hacking is meant more for the general public than the target government .
" I 'm not sure if political leaders , in the center of the issue being brought up in the defacements , really pay attention to them unless it happens to be their own organization , government or departmental website , " said DeLong . "
However they do enlighten the general public to the situation or perhaps people in other countries who are tech savvy but may not be aware of the issue . "
In the past year , the Pakistan Hackerz Club has defaced over a hundred websites .
Normally , its attacks are targeted against Indian government and business websites , where they post statements and pictures supporting Muslim Kashmiris .
Hacktivism , as the mix of hacking and activism is called , is on the rise .
The practice is easy for young , opinionated and perhaps disaffected youths who look for a way to strike out against governments with little risk .
With so many websites available to them as targets , it 's easy for them to find one with lax security that is ripe for an attack .
Since violence flared up between Israelis and Palestinians several weeks ago , website administrators on both sides have been busy defending their sites against attack from enemy hackers attempting to win a propaganda war against the other side .
In the volleys , hackers have targeted the websites of the Knesset , Israel 's Parliament , an Israeli Internet provider and several sites run by the Hezbollah guerrillas .
On Oct. 26 , the National Infrastructure Protection Center , the FBI 's cyber cops , warned that U.S. government and private-sector websites may become potential targets in the online skirmish .
Still , DeLong said , the vast majority of defaced websites are done as mischief .
" You 'll notice that most defacements are either one-line statements of victory or long rambling tirades of nonsense and greets , " DeLong said . "
PHC is one of the few groups that has consistently defaced Web sites in the name of a cause . "
Pakistan Hackerz Club




Matchmaker Exhibition Fizzles

SAN FRANCISCO -- With all the hype surrounding the Web2000 Show 's " Matchmaker " program , you would have expected young professionals to be off in every corner e-mailing their " matches " from Palm devices or chatting with them over a cup of coffee .
Instead , attendees found too few devices in circulation at Moscone Center , and technical barriers killed the curiosity to look at the list of matches .
Ironically , the free demonstration pointed out the growing pains of the burgeoning wireless Web .
The highlight of CMP Media Group 's fifth annual Web2000 Show was supposed to be a program called Matchmaker , in which handheld device distributor Handago lent out 350 Web-enabled Palm V devices .
The devices included a map of vendors exhibiting , company profiles and a program that would match attendees with one another , depending on whether their answers to a 10-question survey lined up .
In the end , the biggest question was whether it was worth the cost .
" I knew at the end of the session I would spend $ 500 to $ 600 I did n't want to spend , " said exhibitor Gregory Clayton as to why he did n't sign up for a Palm V device . "
I saw one person use it -- and that was the only person I saw at the show .
He was trying to figure out how to program it . "
There were other problems .
Recharging the devices took at least an hour .
Certain parts of the Moscone Center could provide at best " spotty " coverage .
And once connected , clicking on an option required at least a 30-second wait , since transmission speed is 19.2 Kbps per second .
" This is not T1 access , " Handago product manager Brad Ellison said . "
Wireless is n't there yet . "
Internet
Matchmaker was a significant breakthrough in that all 350 devices were running on two channels .
The system was down two hours on Wednesday because of a faulty server -- not Handago 's -- in Texas .
Despite technical shortcomings , some attendees found the devices useful and fun .
Eric Freeman , a software developer and user interface designer for Free Markets Inc. , said he came to the show to learn more about his field and find other user-interface designers to possibly recruit for his Austin , Texas company .
He planned to use the device to check his desktop e-mail and possibly find these designers on Matchmaker .
However , he said he could n't use the device to find romance , even if he had wanted to .
" As a happily married man there 's no reason for me to do that , " he said , laughing . "
I 'm staying with family here . "




Kurzweil : Rooting for the Machine

BETHESDA , Maryland -- Raymond Kurzweil does n't merely predict that machine intelligence will surpass human brains by the end of the century .
He 's eagerly anticipating it .
In a Kurzweillian future , the world would become a very strange place , where converging advances in nanotechnology , biotechnology and computer science combine to propel humanity to its next stage of evolution .
" By the end of this century , I do n't think there will be a clear distinction between human and machine , " Kurzweil told the Foresight Institute 's Eighth Conference on Molecular Nanotechnology on Friday .
" We can expand the capacity of our brains by a factor of thousands or millions , and , by the end of the century , by trillions , " predicts the inventor-turned-author of the Age of Intelligent Machines and the Age of Spiritual Machines .
Technology , of course , has been part of human existence since our Cro-Magnon ancestors picked up a stone and realized it could be more than part of the landscape .
But Kurzweil is talking about something a bit more ambitious .
If he 's right , exponential progress in science and engineering will allow us to merge with machines .
We will become resistant to diseases , think faster , live better , and become transhuman in ways that would make even Superman green with envy .
If he 's wrong , well , then we 'll continue to have buggy software , faulty memories , and lifespans that fall far short of the lowly leopard tortoise .
Some of his predictions :
Virtual reality , not through neural implants or goofy goggles , will become the way most humans spend their life this century .
We 'll flood our bodies with microscopic nanobots , which will essentially inject images and sensations directly into our nervous system .
Computers will meet the " raw capacity " of the human brain by 2020 , and the entire human race by 2050 .
Kurzweil was , unintentionally , the person who scared Sun Microsystems co-founder Bill Joy so thoroughly that Joy felt the urge to warn the world about possible advances in a controversial Wired magazine article .
" I guess alarmed Bill and started him on a course he 's still on , " Kurzweil said , calling Joy 's advice to relinquish future technologies " unfeasible , undesirable , and basically totalitarian . "
our conversation
Totalitarian is clearly what one audience member had in mind during the question-and-answer session afterward .
Identifying himself only as a graduate student in quantum computing , a bearded fellow questioned Kurzweil 's commitment to humanity , saying " this is the most hideous message that has been proposed in human history . "
But most of the audience -- if the widespread giggles during the question were any indication -- seemed unalarmed .
Also speaking at the Foresight conference was Charles Lieber , a professor of chemistry at Harvard University .
Lieber described a proposal he and his graduate students concocted to manufacture incredibly high-density computer memory on a nanoscopic scale .
A plan that he dubbed a " suspended crossbar array " would create non-volatile memory with the ability to store one terabit of information in 1 square centimeter of space .
" One can think of gathering beakers of these devices and on the benchtop , " Lieber said .
making them
The conference ends Sunday .




The Patch MS Forgot to Apply

Microsoft 's network has been cracked again , apparently through a hole it had recently warned its customers to patch immediately .
A Dutch hacker going by the name Dimitri told IDG news service he entered Microsoft 's network last Friday and was able to upload a text file , download other files , and view the structure of Microsoft 's server network .
Dimitri entered the Microsoft system through a well-known security hole by using what is commonly known as the Unicode Bug , which Microsoft refers to as the Web Server Folder Traversal Vulnerability .
Microsoft released a patch for the hole in August and considered the hole dangerous enough that it specifically reminded its customers to apply the patch several weeks ago .
The exploit affects servers running Microsoft Internet Information Services versions 4.0 and 5.0 .
Microsoft notes in its tech bulletin that " the vulnerability could potentially allow a visitor to a website to take a wide range of destructive actions against it , including running programs on it . "
It also allows an attacker to gain access to files and folders stored on the server , which could lead to the cracker gaining high-level user login permissions that would , according to Microsoft , enable the " malicious user to add , change or delete data , run code already on the server or upload new code to the server and run it . "
The patch for the hole was released on Aug. 15 , and Microsoft issued a warning bulletin on Oct. 17 , alerting users to apply the patch immediately .
A source inside Microsoft requesting anonymity said that if the cracker got into Microsoft 's network using the company 's " Houston " domain as he claims to have done , he would not have had access to the entire server system or to any program code .
The source said that , to his knowledge , the server had been " put out to pasture , " and was used simply to redirect website visitors to other sections of Microsoft 's Internet-based services .
But the Microsoft source also noted that he was surprised that the Unicode Bug patch had not been applied .
He said he was troubled by the fact that this hole , " which could have been so easily closed " had been left open .
" Our network is a prime target for crackers , as you can guess , " he said . "
Microsoft is a huge company , with thousands of desktops and many servers .
We have a security team working 24 hours a day to keep people out of our systems , and I have been told that there are real attempts to enter the systems , on average , hundreds of times a week .
" That 's serious attempts -- not just someone randomly knocking on the door , " he said . "
Given that , I 'd say the security guys are doing a good job .
No , they are n't perfect , but they 're human and so we do n't expect them to be perfect , either .
And frankly , any server can be had . "
RadWork , a " freelance security consultant , " said that this latest Microsoft hack would n't have been difficult to pull off .
" I have n't spoken to this Dimitri , but I 'd be surprised if he 's claiming it was a big , sophisticated exploit .
What does surprise me is that Microsoft left this server open behind a known hole . "
RadWork explained that crackers use security bulletins " as sort of updates to tricks they can try . "
Once a hole is noted , they will start probing networks to see if the patch that fixes it has been applied .
" So , for MS to announce this hole , and not patch it themselves , is like issuing an open invitation for people to come on in and root around .
They have to know that crackers probably pay better attention to those security bulletins than a lot the heads of many company 's technical support departments do . "




Online Polls in GOP Hands ?

Basically , say election observers , the Internet can be seen as a tool to rally a campaign 's base .
It might not make a big difference in the parties ' war of attrition over Midwestern undecideds , but if you 're trying to increase rank-and-file participation , the Internet is the new way to go .
The RNC has invested more than $ 5 million in this new approach , which is believed to be more than the Democrats ' investment .
Last March , the Republicans became the first political party to offer Internet access to their constituents .
Their move into the ISP business was hailed by observers , and copied a few months later by the Democrats .
Purpuro thinks that the substantial investment is wise , as it has already begun reaping rewards .
He 's talking about fund raising , of course , which he said has been revolutionized by the Internet .
" On average , " he said , " a traditional direct mail campaign costs about 40 cents on the dollar .
fund-raising
And a mailing usually has a 1 percent rate of return -- that is , if you mail 1,000 people , you get 10 donations . "
An Internet mailing can be sent to a million people instead of a thousand -- and at a far lower cost , Purpuro said . "
And the average donation is $ 100 , instead of $ 40 offline , " he said .
Purpuro is careful to distinguish the messages that the RNC sends to his e-mail list from run-of-the-mill spam .
Although some people have complained that the political parties are as guilty of sending unsolicited e-mail as those offshore make-money-quick schemes , Purpuro said that all the messages sent to his eGOP list are sent only to people who signed up for the service .
Also , he said , unsubscribing is easy .
Now , in this last week of the campaign , Purpuro is preparing his e-mail list to push an electronic get-out-the-vote campaign -- " EGOTV , " he calls it .
He said that Republicans can expect to see their inboxes fill up with messages from big-time , major-league " Republican luminaries , " each with a note encouraging people to forward the message on to their friends .
Purpuro thinks that he can get to about 10 percent of registered Republican voters this way , which could , in this close election , make a difference .
Beyond this election , Purpuro sees the Internet taking on a more integral role in both parties .
He thinks that in two years and especially in four , campaigns will rely on the Internet just as they rely on television .
That 's almost right , said Shanto Iyengar , director of Stanford 's Political Communication Laboratory .
Iyengar agrees that television campaign advertising is on its way out , but he does n't think it will be replaced totally by the Internet and e-mail .
He thinks that what the campaigns will pursue is a direct-mail campaign ripped off directly from AOL . "
Targeted multimedia CDs , " he said , " will be sent to certain people -- and they 'll get a message out without having it filtered through the media . "
Through a grant from the Pew Charitable Trusts , Iyengar has produced a prototype of one such CD .
Titled " In Their Own Words : A Sourcebook for the 2000 Presidential Election , " the CD contains every speech that Gore and Bush delivered between July 1 and Oct. 7 .
The RNC 's Purpuro , though , is sticking with e-mail for now , though he says he 's certainly open to other possibilities .
That is , as long as they allow targeted messages , he said .
" Tip O'Neill said that all politics is local , " Purpuro said . "
Today , that 's changed a little .
All politics is personal . "




Warhol 's Mac Art Draws Net Bids

A mysterious online shopper may soon part with at least $ 10,000 for a pastel-colored print of the famous Apple logo .
Sotheby's.com is auctioning a signed and numbered screen print of the instantly recognizable logo by the late , great Andy Warhol .
The pastel-hued screen print shows Apple 's rainbow apple icon .
The words " Apple " and " Macintosh " are above and below .
The sole bid has been placed by someone identified only as " Paddle 50621 . "
Unless outbid , Paddle 50621 will fork over $ 10,000 , plus taxes and commissions , for the three-foot square print when the auction ends in the early hours of Sunday morning .
" An Apple logo selling for ten thousand dollars ?
It does n't make sense , " said Gul Coskun , the London dealer selling the Apple print . "
It 's like a joke , but that 's Warhol for you . "
Produced in 1985 , the print is one of Warhol 's " Ads " series , which mimicked popular advertising images of the time , including Ronald Reagan from a commercial for Van Heusen shirts , and James Dean from the poster for Rebel Without a Cause .
" It 's a typical Warhol idea , " she said . "
It 's like the soup cans .
Campbell 's
It 's the same idea . "
The prints were originally issued in portfolios of 10 images and sold as a set .
190 numbered portfolios were issued , though there are probably about 280 in circulation when all the artists and printers proofs are taken into account .
Coskun estimated the prints initially sold for about $ 500 each .
Sothebys has previously auctioned many Warhols , including several copies of the Apple Macintosh print .
" Warhol prints are some of the most sought after , " said Nina Del Rio , director of online auctions at Sothebys.com . "
They are fun , they are easy to own and he 's widely known .
" He 's very hot . "
Sothebys.com is currently auctioning 20 of the prolific painter 's prints , and there are 133 Warhol works for sale at the Fine Art Site .
In fact , the Fine Art Site also has a copy of the Apple Macintosh print that lists for $ 8,500 , as does Warhol Works .
Del Rio said over the years she has sold " bazillions " of copies of the Apple print .
The price , she said , has fluctuated as wildly as the stock market .
Over the years , Warhol prints have increased in popularity , but the recent economic boom has fueled a hike in interest and prices , Coskun said .
Still , Coskun was a little mystified by the appeal of the Apple print , one of simplest images in the portfolio and the only technology-related work .
" For some reason it appeals to a lot of people , " she said . "
It doesnt appeal to me , I 'm afraid . "
The prints of James Dean , Chanel perfume and Life Savers candy have proven more popular , she said .
She sold a James Dean print last month for $ 23,000 through Sothebys.com , one of the most expensive prints sold from the site .
Coskuns own gallery , which is located in Londons tony Knightsbridge , is starting to see its Net business take off .
She has sold about $ 400,000 worth of art online in the last ten months , she said .
" I think the Internet is still only at the beginning for selling art , " she said . "
It 's still the early days .
But I think in the long run it will be so important I will be able to sit on a beach somewhere in the sun and sell on the Internet . "




It Had to Happen : Sex Survivor

In this version of Survivor , Rudy has to do the nasty .
Sex Survivor 2000 , a weeklong , Internet-only miniseries premiering Nov. 11 , features an adults-only analogue to every aspect of the hit TV series : an L.A. mansion instead of a deserted isle , Roman orgies instead of rats for dinner , and a retired Lt. Col.-turned-porn star instead of Rudy , the crusty Navy SEAL .
For $ 70 each , online voyeurs get to see streaming video of all the action and can vote which of the 28 contestants will remain in the pleasure palace .
The carnal will n't be all that draws viewers , executive producer Michael Caruso claims .
" It 's about more than just sex .
have to cook for each other , clean for each other , make each other 's beds , " he says earnestly .
The contestants
But , curiously , the tidying-up duties are absent from Sex Survivor 's tagline and from its posted schedule .
" screw the most , suck the most , lick the most , to survive " &#91;sic&#93 ;
Instead , viewers are promised a steady diet of " Musical Blowjobs , " " Blind Man 's Muff , " and the ever-popular " Great Dildo Scavenger Hunt . "
In fact , the hardcore fare distinguishes this event from other , adult knockoffs of " Survivor , " like the R-rated Pornstar Survivor , which features topless football and nude Twister , but does n't promise real , up-close-and-personal sex .
By successfully navigating Sex Survivor 's triple-X maze , one male and one female contestant will each land a $ 350,000 grand prize ; second-place winners get $ 100,000 ; third-placers will earn $ 50,000 .
And since Sex Survivor is a " no-condom " event , contestants will be medically tested as if they 'd just emerged from a hot zone along the Ebola River .
Supervising the HIV screening and other tests is Sharon Mitchell , the androgynous , old-school porn starlet who now runs Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation , a clinic specializing in the treatment of sex workers .
Mitchell will also be at the Sex Survivor mansion 12 hours a day to serve as a counselor for the contestants .
" We 're talking about lots of relationships between people with the large egos and low self-esteem that runs rampant in porn , " Mitchell describes . "
So there 's bound to be issues . "
Mitchell 's 28 patients for the week are , theoretically , divided equally between men and women , triple-X veteran and neophyte .
But the " amateur " performers all seem to have more than a little work under their belts .
Kansas City native Tyler Lane , 19 -- classified as a " Rook " under Sex Survivor standards -- has done Barely Legal videos and nude photo shoots for such girlie magazines as Hustler , Leg World and Hawk .
short for " rookie "
Billie Britt , 26 , another " Rook , " is a self-described " porn queen in England " with over 200 filmed sex scenes to her credit -- including 60 since coming to the United States in June .
Britt says she used to work as probation officer .
" The men in prison said I could make a lot of money with my body , " she rasps in an angular Bristol accent .
The only real departure from the cosmetically enhanced crowd is Dave Cummings , a balding , 60-year-old star and producer of the " Sugar Daddy " porn series .
A 25-year Army veteran , he claims to have earned a bronze star in Vietnam , directed personnel for the Department of Defense in Saudi Arabia , and served in West Point and Fort Bragg , N.C. , eventually becoming a Lt. Col.
Impossibly cheery -- " Oh gosh , I did a bunch of foolish things during the Tet offensive " -- Cummings still chuckles about his unorthodox career change .
" The best dream I 'll ever have is the dream I 'm living out in real life , " Cummings laughs . "
I still pinch myself . "
For Cummings , the show is an opportunity to make some extra cash .
For other contestants , it 's a little more serious .
With the exceptions of a few triple-X megastars , " the girls make nothing , nothing &#91;up front&#93 ; .
And there 's no residuals for them , " Mitchell , the sex care worker , said .
According to Cummings , the going rate for ladies is $ 500 - $ 600 for a boy/girl scene , with an additional $ 100 - $ 200 thrown in if there 's anal sex , and another $ 100 - $ 200 if there 's a second guy involved .
The men make $ 250 - $ 500 no matter what 's involved .
That makes first prize in Sex Survivor worth about 700 scenes for the blue-collar workers of the blue movie business .
In other words , Tyler Lane can go back to college and get her beautician degree.
Billie Britt can start her own company , bringing European wannabes to L.A. to " protect them from these sleazy bastards calling themselves agents . "
" I 'm a businesswoman , darling , " she purrs
For the winning Sex Survivor , Mitchell explains , this is " the ticket out of this hole .
We 're in a trap here , honey , and we 're all trying to get out . "




Sex That 's Out of This World

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Getting amorous while in orbit is a fantasy for some , and a serious question for those with a scientific thirst to know if having sex in zero-gravity conditions would be fabulous or fraught with technical difficulties .
Both desires are fed in the upcoming issue of Quest : The History of Spaceflight Quarterly , which features an article that explores the history of sex in the United States and Russian space programs .
It contains tasty tidbits about past plans to film a sex documentary on board the Mir Space Station , allegations of adultery by two Russian cosmonauts and specifics of the pornographic videos that were viewed during space missions .
To write " The Psychological and Social Effects of Isolation on Earth and in Space , " Peter Pesavento interviewed scientists , psychologists , astronauts and cosmonauts for an in-depth and personal piece which lays bare the mysteries of how humans handle themselves &ndash; - and , sometimes , others - &ndash; during extended space missions .
Acknowledging that outer-space sex is a rather racy topic for an academic journal , Quest 's editor , Prof. Stephen Johnson of the University of North Dakota , said the article broke new ground in discussing the social and psychological issues of space flight from a historical and human perspective .
" Sexuality and gender relations are just one of several topics that the author addresses , all of which have been issues in human space flight in the past , and will be again in the future , " Johnson said .
Pesavento focused his article on what he says is " the largest challenge of long-term space flights " : the need to have people return from their missions in acceptable emotional and physical health .
In the piece , Pesavento points out the should-be-obvious fact that " if humans are sexual beings on the ground , they also will be sexual beings in space . "
It 's a concept that NASA , publicly at least , allegedly chooses to ignore .
According to Pesavento , NASA thinks that sex is just a very small part of a more important issue : the lack of any physical connection with loved ones when astronauts are in orbit .
Quest editor Scott Sacknoff added that he believes that since sex in the United States is often a very controversial subject , NASA public relations people simply steer clear of releasing any information about what sorts of extracurricular activities might be happening up there .
" They could open up a can of worms if they had to publicize their official policies for astronaut relations , " Sacknoff said .
" I personally can not picture NASA supporting efforts to film a movie on the International Space Station where a sex scene takes place , such as that which article mentions was proposed for Mir . "
Pesavento 's
Consequently there is very little information available about NASA astronauts ' more amorous activities while in orbit .
In the book Living in Space , former NASA consultant G. Harry Stine , who died in 1997 shortly after his book was published , said that the neutral buoyancy tank that 's used for astronaut training at Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville , Alabama , was also used , both officially and unofficially , to see whether people could shag sans gravitational pull .
According to Stine , it was " possible but difficult . "
Stine also explained that the tank experiments revealed that sex in zero gravity would be easier if a helpful astronaut was available to assist the copulating couple by holding one of the two participants in place .




Environmentalist Brower Dies

SAN FRANCISCO -- David Brower , a mountain-climbing activist who helped shape the environmental movement for much of the 20th century , died of cancer at his Berkeley home .
He was 88 .
Brower , who died Sunday , served as the Sierra Club 's first executive director from 1952 through 1969 , building it into one of the nation 's most powerful environmental groups .
He also helped found Friends of the Earth and the League of Conservation Voters .
" The world has lost a pioneer of modern environmentalism , " said Sierra Club president Robert Cox . "
Like the California redwoods he cherished , David towered above the environmental movement and inspired us to protect our planet . "
An avid mountain climber and skier , Brower served in the Army 's 10th Mountain Division during World War II and had an outdoor adventure career that took him around the globe .
Brower joined the Sierra Club in 1933 and helped turn it from a small hiking group into an environmental organization with considerable influence in Washington and state capitals around the country .
The Sierra Club has more than 600,000 members nationwide .
Brower led Sierra Club efforts to pass the Wilderness Act , block construction of two hydroelectric dams in the Grand Canyon , and create Kings Canyon , North Cascades and Redwoods National Parks and Point Reyes and Cape Cod National Seashores .
He persuaded skeptical board members to go ahead with expensive but successful coffee-table books of Ansel Adams ' nature photographs .
But he was forced out of his job as executive director in 1969 by board members unhappy that he made major decisions without consulting them .
He went on to found Friends of the Earth and the League of Conservation Voters , which have become respected environmental groups .
He resigned from the board of Friends of the Earth after a battle for control in 1986 .
He also founded the Earth Island Institute .
" David Brower was the greatest environmentalist and conservationist of the 20th century .
He was an indefatigable champion of every worthwhile effort to protect the environment over the last seven decades , " said Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader .
Brower resigned from the Sierra Club board this past May , the third time in the past 15 years he had done that to underscore his contention that leaders were n't doing enough to save the Earth .
" The world is burning and all I hear from them is the music of violins , " Brower said . "
The planet is being trashed , but the board has no real sense of urgency .
We need to try to save the Earth at least as fast as it 's being destroyed . "




Beware a Rash of Exorcisms

If you think you know your own mind , think again .
Demonstrating the plasticity of memory , psychologists at the University of Washington in Seattle convinced students they witnessed demonic possession as children .
In a series of recent experiments , psychologists simply showed subjects newspaper articles about possession and then suggested symptoms of depression or anxiety were caused by witnessing a demonic possession during childhood .
Subjects who initially thought demonic possession was highly implausible became convinced they had witnessed it themselves when they were very young .
" It 's relatively easy to make people believe they had an experience when they were children that they did n't have , " said University of Washington psychologist Elizabeth Loftus , an expert in memory research .
" Even people coming into the study saying this is very implausible could be led to believe they had the experience themselves when they were very young . "
Loftus predicted the current run of two movies dealing realistically with demonic possession -- the re-release of The Exorcist and Showtime 's Possessed -- will have a similar effect and lead to a rash of exorcisms .
She said a " mini-epidemic " of exorcisms were reported after the initial release of The Exorcist in 1973 .
" We saw thousands of people out there thinking they were possessed and asking for exorcism , " she said . "
I see no reason it would n't happen again . "
In a series of experiments , 200 students from Italy were asked to rate their feelings about the plausibility of demonic possession and whether it had occurred to them as children .
Initially , all the subjects said possession was highly implausible and they had not witnessed one as a child .
To disguise the nature of the study , questions about possession were buried in a " life events inventory " that included dozens of questions about ordinary childhood experiences like accidents or getting lost at the mall .
Subjects then were presented with articles , stories or testimonials about possession that made it seem a plausible , not uncommon occurrence .
A week later , they filled out a " fear profile " concerning feelings of anxiety or depression as an adult .
Again , the questionnaire contained a lot of red herrings .
After completing the fear profile , some of the subjects were given " false feedback " and were told their fears were caused by witnessing demonic possession as a child .
The researchers found that about 18 percent -- or one-fifth of these subjects -- later changed their minds about the plausibility of demonic possession and were convinced they had witnessed it as children .
" It 's a minority , " Loftus said , " but a very significant minority . "
Three-quarters of the rest of the subjects also changed their opinions , but not quite as radically , Loftus said .
As a control , another group of subjects was told their fears were caused by a choking incident in early childhood .
There was no change in the control group 's attitudes about possession .
The research was led by Giuliana Mazzoni , a psychology professor at Seton Hall University , and included Irving Kirsch of the University of Connecticut .
It will be published next year in The Journal of Experimental Psychology : Applied .
Loftus said the experiments are consistent with a large body of research into the creation of false memories .




Las Vegas Sexes Up for Comdex

Las Vegas may be full of art these days , but most people going to Comdex on Nov. 13 are more interested in tits than Titian .
As the largest trade show in North America rolls into town , the city 's prostitutes , strippers and escorts are gearing up for a very busy week .
Running at locations including the Las Vegas Convention Center and Sands Expo , the monster trade show expects to attract about 220,000 people this year , most of them men who are in the prime of life .
But instead of admiring the paintings at the new Bellagio or Venetian casinos , many convention attendees will be perusing pasties at a strip club on the Strip .
" The computer nerds like to see live ladies pole dancing , " is how one of the citys PR officials , who asked not to be named , put it .
Accommodating conventioneers , many of the casinos will cancel their glitzy Broadway-style shows for a week in favor of more raunchy burlesque .
" It 's such a male-dominated convention , and during the evening a lot of production shows go dark during the week , " said George Staresinic , director of advertising and public relations at the Riviera Hotel and Casino .
The Riviera , for example , has booked a couple of porn stars to join the cast of its regular revue , the silicone-heavy Crazy Girls , to entertain the gentlemen from Silicon Alley and Valley .
" At the convention they are very quiet , very professional , " Staresinic said . "
But they hoot and holler in the Crazy show .
All hell breaks loose . "
Staresinic said posters advertising the show around the casino will be screwed to the walls to stop them being stolen .
" It 's the only time of the year we have to do it , " he said .
While prostitution is illegal in Las Vegas , it is n't in neighboring Nye County .
A steady stream of " customers " will be ferried out to a handful of brothels surrounding the desert town of Pahrump -- about an hour out of Las Vegas -- by taxi , limo and even helicopter .
" We have customers coming in constantly , " said one of the girls at Sherri 's Ranch , who declined to give her name . "
We see three or four times as many customers . "
Sherri 's Ranch is a brothel employing about a dozen women .
" All of our customers are very polite gentlemen , " she added . "
We never have any problems at all . "
The Las Vegas strip clubs also see a lot of traffic during Comdex , which runs from Nov. 13-17 .
" If there are men at a convention , they come in here , " laughed Annette Rizzolo , comptroller of Crazy Horse Too , a Greco-Roman themed gentleman 's club just off the Strip .




Nader Traders in a Quandary

Those cutely named " Nader Traders , " whose Internet ingenuity has been much-celebrated during the last two weeks , might , on election day , be having second thoughts .
First , the traders might be wondering whether or not they should trust others in far-off corners of the Internet with their vote -- " Will that e-mail address vote as he said he would ? "
But beyond thoughts about strategy , the traders would do well , Tuesday , also to see if they are breaking the law by trading votes .
The legality of trading a vote is most pressing now , as a federal judge Monday refused to grant a temporary restraining order against California Secretary of State Bill Jones 's attempts to shut down a few of the trading sites .
U.S. Judge Robert Kelleher gave no reason for denying the restraining order .
" The bottom line is that voters need to know that votes can n't be bought , sold or traded for anything of value , including another vote , " said Alsie Charles , a spokesman for Jones 's office , in response to the ruling . "
The quid pro quo trading of votes is illegal in California . "
By some estimates , more than 20,000 people signed up to trade votes using the many trading sites that went online during the past few weeks .
Traders agreed to vote for Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader in states that were probably going to be carried by Republican George W. Bush , giving Vice President Al Gore a better chance in toss-up states .
But last week , Secretary of State Bill Jones threatened Jim Cody and Ted Johnson , the owners of < a href="http://www.voteswap2000.com"VoteSwap2000.com , with criminal prosecution if they did n't shut down their site .
Cody and Johnson immediately closed up shop . "
The fear of prosecution played a big part in our decision , " Cody later said .
VoteSwap2000 had been the most popular of the sites , and when it closed down , the owners of other sites thought that they would be next on Jones 's list .
Fearing prosecution , Alan Porter , the owner of a similar site called Votexchange2000.com , also shut down his trading service .
But Porter was then contacted by the American Civil Liberties Union , and last Thursday he decided to join the organization in pursuing a temporary restraining order against the secretary of state .
" If votes were a tangible commodity , the state could legitimately say that you could n't exchange them , " said Mark Rosenbaum , legal director of the ACLU 's Southern California office . "
But you can n't trade a vote any more than you and I can trade hopes for the future .
It 's not a real trade -- it 's pure association and political speech . "
In a statement released last Friday , Secretary Jones called the ACLU 's complaint " bizarre and a waste of all of our time . "
Shad Balch , a spokesman for the Secretary 's office , said that a temporary restraining order preventing the secretary from shutting down Votexchange2000.com was unnecessary because the office did n't consider that site to be illegal .




Transmeta Soars in Stock Debut

Transmeta Corp. pulled off a spectacular stock market debut Tuesday , in spite of fresh speculation from a Wall Street analyst that its power-saving Crusoe chip might not be all that it 's cracked up to be .
The Santa Clara , California company saw its stock rise 119 percent in high-volume , first-day trading after pricing above expectations at $ 21 a share .
The stock opened at $ 40 and rose as high $ 50.88 before dipping to close at $ 45.56 .
Although Tuesday 's steep increase would have been standard fare in the maniacally upbeat IPO market of 1999 and early 2000 , it 's relatively unusual in today 's more sober investment climate .
The rise was particularly noteworthy given that the size of the deal -- 13 million shares - was larger than the average offering .
Nonetheless , a number of IPO analysts had been predicting a strong showing for Transmeta , which has ranked among Silicon Valley 's most talked about companies ever since it unveiled its power-saving Crusoe chip early this year .
TMTA
With the Crusoe , Transmeta intends to capitalize on growing use of mobile computers by selling a chip that offers a longer battery life for laptops , handheld computers , and other portable Internet-connected devices .
The company has already reached agreements with Sony , Hitachi , NEC and Fujitsu to use its products in mobile devices .
The offering drew strong interest from institutional investors .
Transmeta had originally set a price range of $ 11 to $ 13 for its shares , but raised it to $ 16 to $ 18 last week , and raised it again the night before the offering .
Individual investors jumped on the bandwagon as well , drawn in part by Transmeta 's high profile image , said Matt Zito , co-founder of IPOguys.com , a site geared to mom-and-pop IPO investors .
" There was a lot of media hype around this , " said Zito , noting that Transmeta has done a remarkable job drawing attention to itself ever since its early days as an ultra-secretive Silicon Valley startup .
With the unveiling of the Crusoe in January , the company benefited from pent-up interest in what had been a hush-hush operation .
The company has suffered some blows to its image in recent days , however .
Last week , IBM , a key partner , disclosed that it would not use Transmeta 's chip in a line of notebook computers it plans to launch this year .
IBM
Then on Tuesday , the company found itself the subject of criticism in a report issued by U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray analyst Ashok Kumar , who warned that Transmeta is facing stepped-up competition from Intel in the power-saving microchip business .
" Transmeta has some unique technology that gives it some advantages for mobile devices , " Kumar wrote in report that rated that stock an overall " buy " . "
However , we believe the technology has been over-hyped and that Intel is fighting back with improved products . "
Kumar noted that Compaq and Toshiba have also opted not to use Transmeta chips in their mobile computers .
CPQ
He also downplayed the power-saving benefits of the Crusoe .
In his report , Kumar estimated that substituting a Transmeta chip for a Pentium III processor extends battery life by 10 percent to 20 percent , but does not double it as he says Transmeta claimed it would do .




Microsoft 's Walk in the Clouds

SEATTLE -- Microsoft unveiled their first major step into the brave new world of " computing in the cloud " as Bill Gates has labeled it , announcing the launch of Phase One of their E-Business Acceleration Initiative today .
EBAI
In a live webcast from their Redmond , Washington , studios , the software company previewed what it foresees as the future for businesses of all sizes , combining marketing , ordering and customer tracking into a seamless whole .
Chris Atkinson , vice-president of the NET Enterprise Solutions Group pitched the new initiative as a way to reduce the development costs of connecting suppliers and customers of any size through any e-marketplace on the Internet .
" By reducing the development effort , " he said , " we are enabling e-businesses to generate new revenues and reach new markets with their products . "
Atkinson 's rhetoric soared as he described the EBAI as going " to the very heart of what must be done to ensure the development , growth and success of e-business , worldwide , " and calling Microsoft 's collaborators in the initiative " the leading lights in the e-business firmament . "
Behind the hyperbolic language is a plan to provide cross-platform software and servers that will tie together supply catalogues , order forms and back-office support to automate the business supply chain as much as possible .
As a first step , Microsoft will begin offering small businesses a way to move beyond their own website to list their products in a number of online marketplaces and accept orders through its bCentral subscription service .
MSFT
Atkinson said the integrated service , dubbed Commerce Manager , would go live on the Internet this week .
It will also offer domain name e-mail , website templates and hosting services , and tie the automated ordering system into the company 's own tracking and accounting systems .
The second phase , scheduled to be unleashed on the world in the early part of 2001 , is geared to mid-size companies .
The Supplier Accelerator is being built on the latest versions of Microsoft 's SQL , Biz Talk and Commerce servers to provide rich-content for customers and help companies preserve their own identities while reaching out through the marketplace sites to find new business .
Dell and Compaq have both announced new hardware designed to run the Microsoft e-business software .
DELL
CPQ
The new system would act as a gateway between a company 's own systems and its marketplaces , translating the catalog and ordering materials to comply with the differing systems used by various marketplace websites .
Eventually , Microsoft envisions a third tier that will provide the same sorts of solutions on a customizable basis to the largest enterprise systems for companies like GM and Boeing .
GM
BA
With that piece in place , which Atkinson projected would be coming in the later part of next year , the system would present a seamless , integrated e-commerce solution , scaleable to any level and ready to grow with a company 's needs , from very small to a fully global enterprise .
" Microsoft 's announcement today allows companies of just about any size to play in this marketplace arena , " said Mitch Kramer , an analyst with the Patricia Seybold Group who specializes in e-commerce solutions . "
It 's potentially a very big story . "




Gifts for the E-Generation

Forget Furbies .
Pokemon is pass .
Tamagotchi ?
Gesundheit .
The toys of Christmas past will remain in the attic while desperate parents flood the toyshops in person and online .
And what do the kids want ?
As much interaction .
" Electronics have expanded the possibilities of different types of products , " said Paul Gainer , the vice president of merchandising at eToys .
ETYS
In particular , electronics has greatly spurred interest in educational toys .
" Electronics have been able to fast-forward the learning , " Gainer said .
It has also fast-forwarded eToys ' sales .
The company expects to double their sales from last year , and projects to collect as much as $ 240 million during the holiday season .
Educational or not , here 's a sample of what kids will be looking for under the tree in December :
batteries not included
For Gamer Girls and Boys : With its stunning graphics and 3-D visuals , Playstation 2 is hot but hard to come by .
Retail stores have painfully long waiting lists , so anxious parents may shoot over to eBay .
EBAY
The auction site lists over 1,000 of the gaming consoles , but be prepared to pay several hundred dollars over the $ 299 retail price .
Hi-Tech Transportation : No , it 's not 1950 , but scooters have made a rousing comeback in sleek silver designs with a variety of extra features such as electric wheels , shock absorbers and tail lights .
The compact , fold-up Razor Scooter sports matching handlebar and wheel colors that make a fashion statement while kids scoot through the neighborhood .
The pricier Zappy scooter from Zapworld.com runs on electricity and zips along at speeds of up to 13 mph
$ 39.99 - $ 599.99
Digital Doggies : Why cuddle up with a real puppy when you can play with one that will n't shed or bite ?
Techno hounds are hot since Sony created the Aibo last year .
The pricey pooch , which retails for $ 2,500 , inspired competitors to make more affordable models .
Tekno the Robot Puppy , Poo-Chi and Rocket the Wonder Dog are just a few of the new breeds .
$ 24.99-99.99
Gadgets for Girls : Girl Tech offers a slew of products for tech-savvy girls , including a voice recognition , password-protected phone and diary .
Laser Chat enables two pals to beam secret notes to each other .
One records a message to a friend , and the recipient can hear the latest news on their own Laser Chat device .
$ 17.99-29.99
Ham Radio : Whether your kids rock out to jazz , bubblegum pop , hiphop or classical , they can spin the tunes using Radio DJ from Wild Planet Toys .
Features include a DJ microphone , faders to blend music and voice and sound effects like cheering , drum roll and a laugh track .
Using the karaoke component , kids can sing along with Pavarotti or Britney Spears .
The radio picks up the broadcast from about 15 feet , and aspiring DJs can also record them for posterity .
$ 19.99
Table-Top for Tots : Designed for the little ones , the Intelli-Table holds three removable " play and learn " rings on its table-top .
The interactive rings -- which use Microsoft smart technology -- help toddlers and preschoolers develop with challenging activities .
One ring focuses on basic skills such as letters , numbers , animal names and sounds .
Another ring plays different musical instruments and songs , and the third teaches children memory and matching skills through educational games .
$ 69.99
The Next George Lucas : IBooks were popular last year .
This season , the notebook computers -- in graphite , key lime , and indigo -- come equipped with iMovie2 editing software .
Kids can make original desktop movies with footage from class plays and family vacations .
They can also add music and e-mail the masterpiece to friends and relatives .
$ 1,499
Spies Like Us : Wild Planet also features a line of spy-related toys , including sunglasses outfitted with a hidden camera and Night-Vision Goggles .
Kids can slip on the Spy Glove and check out their surroundings with the mini-telescope , secret mirror and signal light .
$ 12.99
Kids on Film : Last year , digital cameras were hot with the kiddies .
This year , Polaroid 's I-Zone instant camera -- which takes mini photos -- is predicted to be popular .
Kids can load it up with sticker film and plaster the pics on their lockers , bikes and notebooks .
$ 24.99




The Little Phone Co.
That Could

In a niche dominated by the giant phone carriers , a small San Jose-based company has developed a method that reduces that annoying problem of dropped cell-phone calls and spotty coverage .
LGC Wireless , through shared antennae sites providers , has already nailed down some pretty impressive accounts -- including all three major airports in the New York metropolitan area , Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport and SAFECO Field in Seattle .
Now LGC plans to offer improved indoor cellular phone coverage to 15,000 multi-tenant buildings , hospitals , malls and convention centers in the United States and Canada .
Pretty ambitious for a small company that has n't even gone public .
The service uses a network of distributed antennae and cables and distributes radio frequency signals , without breaking up the spectrum , so users indoors could receive constant coverage .
" This is a brand new business opportunity we recognized years ago , " said Enrique Cuellar , vice president of marketing for LGC Wireless .
While phone service carriers can implement networks to improve on poor indoor cell-phone reception , each company would have to erect a system -- which can create an eyesore of cables .
Not to mention the added time and expense of negotiating with building owners .
LGC Wireless has been banking that carriers and other parties will rely on its network .
" We have this ability to very efficiently and effectively improve coverage , " Cuellar said . "
Tower companies like SpectraSite will negotiate for the rights to inside the buildings , then any carrier can negotiate with SpectraSite if they want to provide coverage in buildings .
LGC 's most recent partner
" The carrier wins because it can sell cellular phones and minutes of use to the subscribers and not have to concentrate or devote time negotiating with building owners for putting equipment inside the building . "
Seems like a logical remedy to a headache that has plagued this industry since the 1980s .
But carriers , such as Sprint , prefer to control the indoor network .
Other companies , such as phone manufacturer Motorola , also offer solutions to poor indoor coverage .
But even these products , the company says , can not ensure 100 percent coverage .
Motorola spokesman Roderick Kelly said there 's little to complain about dropped cell-phone calls compared to when wired line service is down because of outside interference .
" When you are a business owner and wired line service is down for a couple days because someone cut through a phone line -- that is more frustrating and damaging , " he said .




Net Traffic at All-Time High

It 's Gore , it 's Bush , it 's nobody .
But as the major media waffled over who would be the next U.S. President Tuesday night , one clear winner emerged .
Those offering news on the Web won -- and they won by a landslide in what may have been the busiest day ever in the short history of the Internet .
" The numbers were rather astronomical , " said Allen Weiner , a Web traffic analyst at the site-ranking firm Nielsen/Netratings . "
I can n't say definitively that it was the biggest traffic of all time , but I damn well can n't say what could have bigger . "
Traffic at news and information sites increased by between 130 and 500 percent during the historically close election , depending on the site , Weiner said .
And the hits keep coming .
Weiner said that due to the in-the-air nature of the decision , the sites are still experiencing record traffic .
ABCNews.com , for example , received 27.1 million pageviews Tuesday , which beat its Starr Report-record of 10 million pageviews .
MSNBC also received " phenomenal " traffic , according to that site 's general manager , John Nicol .
" On a heavy day of traffic , we have about 40,000 people connected to our site at any given time , " he said early Wednesday morning . "
Right now , we have 185,000 connections . "
" We also noticed that people used the Web and watched TV in parallel .
Anytime there was a major news announcement on TV , our numbers skyrocketed , " Nicol said .
Nicol said that MSNBC 's previous traffic record was about 3 million visitors in a single day , which has been recorded for numerous news events , including July 's crash of an Air France Concorde . "
We probably doubled that yesterday , " Nicol said of election traffic .
Although the news sites had expected Tuesday to be pretty hectic , some of them apparently had no idea that traffic would approach record levels .
And it was clear , Tuesday night , that some sites were clearly caught off guard .
" We saw performance on a lot of news Web sites slip down , " said Daniel Todd , who analyzed election news sites at the Web performance monitoring company Keynote Systems .
Todd 's analysis shows that throughout election day , many new sites took more than three or four seconds to respond to page requests , which is significantly slower than normal performance .
" MSNBC in particular really had some problems consistently all day yesterday , " Todd said . "
They were floating between 11 and 30 seconds for most of the day yesterday . "
MSNBC 's Nicol acknowledged that the site had experienced technical difficulties , but " we are adding capacity all the time , " he said . "
One of things we notice , though , is that each time we add capacity , more users are logging on , and filling it up . "
Nicol said that the problem was being addressed , in part , by eliminating advertisements and some non-election related features of the site so that most of the servers ' workload was devoted to serving campaign coverage .
Internet-only news companies that do not have TV counterparts also experienced higher-than-average traffic .
Dayna Macy , a spokeswoman for Salon , said that her site received a " terrific " 1.7 million pageviews .
Keynote 's Todd said that he expected the traffic to continue . "
This is n't the kind of story like a national catastrophe , where you just want facts and that 's the end of it , " he said . "
This is very complex , and there 's a lot of specific information that people want . "
Nicol 's MSNBC corroborated that assessment . "
What we were noticing was that people were sitting there and just pressing the refresh button on their browser , trying to get any small bit of new information . "




Hacker War Rages in Holy Land

Israelis and Palestinians are waging a cyberspace hacking war , employing a variety of tactics such as site defacements , system penetrations , misinformation campaigns and the possible use of viruses or Trojan horses .
Thats the word according to iDefense , an international private intelligence outfit monitoring hacker activities for private and public-sector clients .
Not only has the rash of defacements already crashed official government and corporate sites , but it is expected to continue and intensify as political tensions in the region heighten .
Since Oct. 6 , when the Israeli/Palestinian cyberconflict moved into full swing , pro-Palestinian hackers have defaced at least 40 Israeli sites while Israeli antagonists have marred 15 Palestinian sites .
iDefense Chairman and CEO James Adams believes the current rash of attacks between the Palestinians and Israelis is " just a taste of things to come . "
" We expect to see more wars like this one being waged out there , " said Adams , who foresees the future of warfare as one conducted not only by nations with armies , but by individuals with common gripes , banning together against a common enemy .
" Their weapon of choice , the laptop , is easily available , and the ammunition , viruses and hacking programs , is free on the Internet , " he said .
The current conflict is believed to have begun shortly after pro-Israeli attackers created a website called Wizel.com -- a host for FloodNet attack , which reloads a targeted Web page several times per minute , thereby rendering the site inoperable .
Six different Hezbollah sites , including Hamas.org and other Palestinian informational sites , were victims of the FloodNet device .
Pro-Palestinian attackers quickly rallied from the assault and attacked Wizel.com and a wide range of Israeli sites , including the Bank of Israel and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange .
Back and forth , the Israelis and Palestinians launch attack after attack , often rewriting the same hacking programs to destroy their creators site .
Analysis by iDefense reveals a number of key players and organizations involved in the war .
On the Israeli side , the wizel.com creators , a.israforce.com , SmallMistake and Hizballa are just a few of the individuals or groups waging battles against Palestinians .
On the other front , Unity , a Muslim extremist group with ties to Hezbollah and other terrorist groups , has been one of the forerunners in what pro-Palestinian hackers commonly refer to in chat rooms and bulletin boards as " e-jihad " or " cyber-jihad . "
Credited with the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange hit , Unity has announced that it has begun phase three of its four-part cyberwar .
Phase one of their cyber jihad focused on crashing official Israeli government sites .
Phase two included the Bank of Israel hit , while Phase three targets the Israeli ISP infrastructure and the site for Lucent , as well as that of Golden Lines , an Israeli telecommunications provider .




Asian Languages Are Dot-OK

Some 48,000 new domain names are being registered around the world every day .
Now , starting Friday , names can be registered in Chinese , Korean and Japanese , to go with the extensions dot-com , dot-net and dot-org .
Until now , these domain names were recognized only when written in Roman letters and Arabic numerals .
Calling it " the next dot-com wave , " a domain-name registrar , Registrars.com , is urging people to sign up quickly for the Asian script names so as to beat the crowd and avoid the problems many have had with reserving domain identities in English .
International standards , which apply to the multilingual system , permit only certain types of domain-name trading .
Only words in the dictionary can be bought and sold at a price .
Neither brand names nor their variations can be traded .
Asia started relatively late in registering domains but is catching up rapidly .
Registrations have increased by 78 percent between 1999 and 2000 .
Registrar.com said this latest development is particularly crucial for businesses in the Asian market , where customers are charged US $ 50 for every successful registration .
In the strictest sense , the system does not completely localize domain names to Asian regions , because the users will still need to type " .com " in Roman letters .
The company China-channel.com is boasting that it has the technology to snap up names for customers quickly as soon as real-time registration opens , giving it an edge over competitors .
It said it received some 50,000 applications within the first three days of the pre-registration in late October .
" An estimated 25 percent of Internet users nowadays surf only in Chinese , " said a spokesperson for the company .




Virtual Cells May Aid Drug Tests

Pharmaceutical companies want more drugs and they want them cheaper and faster .
After all , that was at least part of the promise of the Human Genome Project .
But the technologies in place will surely buckle under the weight of too many A , C , T , G sequences , experts say .
Bioinformatics -- the mining of biological data using information technology -- is the buzzword du jour in biotech .
Bioinformatics companies , however , are using the brute force of old technologies to crunch their data .
Unless someone introduces a new and unique technology to process all this information efficiently , experts say , the decade-long , $ 3 billion Human Genome Project could end up being nothing but an expensive science project .
" Computers can solve things , but they can n't predict anything new , " said Dr. Alan Walton , chairman of Oxford Bioscience . "
We 're going to have to have a breakthrough here . "
If researchers are going to extract drug discoveries out of GenBank , the Human Genome Project 's free database , and the genome map created by Celera -- without getting buried in information -- biotech will need revolutionary , eureka-style discoveries .
Jeremy Levin , CEO of Physiome Sciences in Princeton , New Jersey , is shouting " Eureka ! " and some experts say he 's worth a listen .
Physiome has developed a technology called In Silico Cell that helps researchers create models of living systems to predict which drugs will work before they begin clinical trials .
Using an XML-based language called CellML , scientists can create a mathematical representation of any type of cell -- from heart , to lung , to kidney -- and perform simulations to test drugs .
" Here you 've got a situation where I believe you can predict things the pharmaceutical industry would not know by any other method , " Watson said .
The program can tell researchers that a certain heart drug , for example , will cause the left ventricle to expand .
If researchers can test drugs " in silico " and get meaningful results before they go into clinical trials , they could save millions of dollars and possibly save lives .
" For the first time in the history of biology we have the capability to reduce biological functions to mathematics and compute them in a cost-efficient fashion , " Levin said .
Money spent on research and development at pharmaceutical companies has increased at a staggering rate .
In 1980 , researchers spent $ 3 billion , according to the Biotechnology Industry Organization .
This year they spent nearly $ 23 billion .
Even more surprising is the fact that only $ 2.4 billion of that was spent on drugs that made it successfully through Food and Drug Administration clinical trials .
" This is a major crisis , " Levin said . "
Pre-clinical expense -- unless pharmaceuticals improve all their systems -- is going to drown this industry . "
Drug discovery is an imprecise process that relies heavily on serendipity .
Pharmaceutical companies come up with about 140 new drug candidates per year , but only about seven are marketed .
Big pharmaceuticals typically aim to develop two new drugs per year , and most have failed .
" The industry is built on failure , " Levin said .




SDMI Examines Hacker Data

Nearly one and a half months after the Secure Digital Music Initiative challenged hackers to break the five technologies they are examining to secure music in hardware , the results are in.
SDMI
" Of the five proposed technologies that SDMI still has under consideration , successful attacks were not identified on three technologies , and were identified on two , " said SDMI 's executive director Leonardo Chiariglione .
SDMI 's work is based on the core principles that copyrights should be respected , but that those who wish to use unprotected formats should be able to do so .
They received 447 submissions from individuals and teams , each of which has helped SDMI " assess the strengths and weaknesses " of the technologies under consideration .
" Of those apparently successful attacks , one of them was not reproduced on additional music samples as part of our evaluation process .
The technologies that withstood challenge included both watermark and non-watermark solutions , " added Chiariglione .
SDMI had originally posted six technologies but one proponent withdrew its proposal early in the testing process .
They will be analyzing the results of the larger audibility tests throughout this week .




A New Way to Look at Optical

A new optical storage media that can hold up to 140 GB of data on a disc the size of a CD-ROM -- the equivalent of putting the data from a DVD video onto a credit card -- makes its debut at Comdex .
Fluorescent Multilayer Disc is the creation of Constellation 3D and represents a fundamental change in the way optical media is designed .
FMD
Compact Disc and Digital Versatile Disc use single and dual metallic layers , respectively , to store data in pits and grooves , similar to the way grooves store music on vinyl records .
CD
DVD
The limitation of CD and DVD is that the solid , reflective layer where data is stored can not be accurately penetrated by the laser .
In the case of DVD , the laser can penetrate one layer deep to read the second layer , but after that , the laser becomes diffused and unable to read the data clearly .
FMD-ROM is a totally clear disc .
Instead of reading a single layer , the data is stored on fluorescent materials in multiple layers , which give off light .
The existence or nonexistence of these materials on a layer tells the drive whether there is information there or not , which allows the whole system to handle many more layers .
Constellation 3D has talked about 10 or more layers per disc .
The five-inch disc , which is the same size as CD-ROMs and DVD-ROMs , can hold up to 140 GB of data -- almost 30 times the capacity of a DVD-ROM disc .
" There 's a clear need for high-capacity data storage , most obvious in consumer applications like HDTV , " said John Ellis , vice president of marketing for Constellation 3D . "
high-definition TV
There are other applications like digital cinema and mobile apps that require huge amounts of data storage like digital cameras . "
A high-definition movie can run up to 20 GB in size , well beyond that of a DVD player .
So FMD-ROM is not a competitor to DVD , but the next step , said Ellis .
Constellation will be showing off the new media to the public for the first time next week at the Comdex conference in Las Vegas .
And it will have some of its partners on hand , including Zeon Chemical , a developer of optical media polymers that will make the media for FMD products .
" We found their technology very interesting , " said Paula Fips , director of new business development at Zeon . "
No one else is even approaching that level of density .
I think in the future people will grow into it , " she added . "
You will n't realize how much you can do with 15 GB until you have 15 GB to fill up .
I think it will move us into an area of greater data storage with lighter , smaller form factors . "
The company also plans on releasing much smaller media , such as credit card-sized and smart card-sized products for a stand-alone user or for use in devices such as digital cameras and digital camcorders .
Because the storage area can be kept very small and capacity is increased by adding layers , one can put several gigabytes on an area the size of a postage stamp .
The first generation of FMD-ROM drives will be read-only , but the company is also working on producing recordable FMD technology by the end of 2001 .
You can , however , see the read-only version at Comdex next week when Constellation demonstrates a high-definition video player .
Semiconductor giant Texas Instruments is also giving FMD a close look . "
We see this as being a great technology moving forward and a great deal of potential for it , " said Steve Haddad , director of advanced business development for Texas Instruments in Dallas , Texas .
" We see the opportunities to be endless .
If this is played right from a marketing , development and partnership standpoint , the acronym FMD-ROM could be as popular as CD-ROM and DVD . "




Japan To Take IT Lunge

Japan moved a step closer on Thursday to Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori 's goal of creating an e-nation when Parliament approved a bill adopting the Information Technology revolution as a national goal .
IT
The bill , passed by the powerful Lower House , is aimed at making the Internet available to Japan 's 120 million people within the next five years .
Lower House lawmakers also adopted a resolution urging that more consideration be given to cutting the sky-high telecom fees that have long been the biggest deterrent to Internet use .
While many young people spend hours surfing the Net on tiny , silver i-mode Internet-friendly mobile telephones , the bulk of the population has yet to venture into cyberspace .
The IT Basic Bill calls on the government to " realize a society that allows vigorous development by making it easy for all people to use highly advanced information and communications networks led by the Internet . "
The bill , which must now be approved by the Upper House , urges the revision of regulations blocking the spread of electronic commerce .
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone was blamed for the high telecommunications fees as a result of market dominance .
NTT owns 90 pecent of the local lines connecting homes and businesses .
Some critics , though , suspect that politicians ' plans to shift spending away from traditional public works projects such as bridges and roads to an information highway are in part a smoke screen for the old-style pork barrel spending that has recently come under heavy fire from the public .
---
Lernout & Hauspie sinks deeper : Aggressive action by Lernout & Hauspie to clean house in the wake of investigations into its accounting practices may not be enough to salvage the troubled Belgian voice-recognition company , analysts said .
Others said the best way forward may be to split the company and seek new partners , ditching the company 's now-tarnished name .
By 1:30 p.m. GMT , L&H shares had lost over 30 percent of their value to $ 4.30 on the pan-European Easdaq exchange , after earlier dipping to $ 3.70 , the lowest since it first listed there in 1997 .
On Nasdaq , where the company first listed in 1995 , the price last month had fallen to as low as $ 4-11/16 .
L&H shares are largely held by individuals .
Before the probes into L&H 's financial statements , institutions held around 17 percent of its equity .
Fund managers interviewed over recent days said they had lost confidence in the company and said investors were likely to continue to shun the stock until a U.S. Securities and Exchange investigation from September has been concluded .
L&H said it would restate financial results for 1998 , 1999 and the first half of 2000 .
It also said revenues for the third quarter would be at least $ 40 million below the published $ 165-185 million range .
Co-founders Jo Lernout and Pol Hauspie stepped down as co-chairmen and managing directors , with John Duerden , named chief executive in August , now the sole managing director .
At least a dozen shareholder class-action lawsuits have been hurled at L&H in the United States , alleging the company misrepresented its financial situation .
---
EU asks Japan to clean up telecom market : The European Union may take Japan to the World Trade Organization for unfair competition in its telecommunications market unless the government commits itself to establishing an independent industry regulator , an EU official said .
The EU maintained that Japan 's failure to ensure a level playing field , to reduce interconnection charges and to introduce proper regulatory transparency break a WTO agreement to liberalize basic telecom services .
Asked about the report , European Commission trade spokesman Anthony Gooch said : " We have concerns concerning the regulatory system in Japan in telecoms .
This is a longstanding issue we have been discussing with the Japanese in different contexts .
We are currently examining different options to try to resolve problems that exist .
This includes a regulatory dialogue that we have bilaterally with Japan . "
If the EU did invoke the WTO 's dispute settlement procedure , the first step would be to hold consultations with Japan .
If those failed , the case could be decided by a WTO dispute panel .
---
Yahoo to buy Chinese portal : Yahoo said it would acquire portal website Kimo , hoping the Taiwanese firm 's content and Chinese-language expertise will give the company an edge in mainland China .
YHOO
Yahoo will issue 2.25 million additional shares to acquire all of Kimo 's outstanding shares , options and warrants , which would value the Taiwan portal at $ 146.25 million based on the Nasdaq-listed firm 's $ 65 closing price on Wednesday .
---
News value : Newspapers prematurely pronouncing George W. Bush the winner of the U.S. presidential election became commodities on Internet auction sites Wednesday .
On auction site eBay , an early edition of the 25-cent New York Post proclaiming " Bush Wins ! " in big , red letters was selling for $ 30.01 .
EBAY
Reuters contributed to this report .




Personal Radar on the Horizon

LAS VEGAS -- A new radio technology that will yield super-fast wireless networks , personal radar devices and in-home location systems is being shown at Comdex for the first time .
Time Domain , a startup from Huntsville , Alabama , is at the convention showing off just some of the many uses for its ultra-wide-band technology -- a pulse radio system with the potential to shake up telecommunications and usher in a new era of personal radar systems and short-range location devices .
UWB
Previously , the technology has been demonstrated mainly in private .
Comdex is its first big , public showing .
Unlike traditional radio signals , which are transmitted on a single frequency , UWB signals are carried on many different frequencies at once .
But they are transmitted at such low power , they hardly rise above background radio noise and therefore do n't interfere with other radio devices .
Information is transmitted as a stream of short-wave radio pulses , which can penetrate walls and the ground .
Depending on the power , operational range is between a few feet and a few miles .
In a hotel suite near the convention center , Time Domain executives demonstrated a 10 Mbps wireless network , which is based on the company 's first generation UWB chip , called the PulsON .
The second generation PulsON chip , which goes into production at the end of the year , transmits data at 40 Mbps -- four times the speed of 802.11 , a popular wireless networking standard .
Time Domain hopes to see the first home wireless networking products released in early 2002 , operating at 40 Mbps .
Within four years , it expects to boost data rates to 1 Gigabit per second and to have shrunk the chip so that it can be easily incorporated into cell phones and handhelds .
But because the PulsON chip includes a very fast digital signal processor , which can time with extraordinary accuracy the transmission and reception of radio signals , it can also act as a radar that sees through walls and the ground .
And if extra antennas are added , the chip acts as a locating device , using differences in reception times between the antennas to track the location of people or objects .
Executives showed a short-range radar that monitors a " bubble " of space around itself with a five-foot radius .
An alarm goes off if someone steps into its range .
Time Domain said UWB radar could lead to myriad personal radar devices , including a motion-detecting alarm system that recognizes the difference between pets and people .
It could also be used as a collision avoidance system for automobiles , helping drivers to parallel park .
And it can tell if something big and fast is about to hit the vehicle -- and deploy airbags before the collision .
A location-tracking system was also demonstrated .
On a computer monitor , the system showed the movement of a robot cart as it trundled around the hotel suite .
Competing tracking systems , executives said , are accurate to within a few feet .
The UWB system was accurate to within a few inches .




Gigabytes to Go

New diminutive storage devices prove that you can , in fact , take it with you .
Four portable offerings that fit in the palm of your hand and can be used to share large files between computers will be on display at Comdex next week .
M-Systems ' DiskOnKey is the size of a pen , plugs into a USB port , and requires no additional software .
The devices are available in 8 MB , 16 MB and 32 MB configurations and are compatible with Windows , Mac or Linux computers .
" Our DiskOnKey is a true plug-and-play .
You plug it into any USB port and it becomes your new drive within less than a second , " said Dov Moran , CEO of M-Systems .
The pen shape of the DiskOnKey will entice frequent travelers , business types who want to deliver presentations , and tech-savvy school kids to carry them everywhere , Moran said .
The devices , which are password-protected and have unique IDs , could in the future be used as " personal keys " that include an individual 's credit cards , Moran added .
The second gadget , ThumbDrive from Trek 2000 International , eschews the pen design for an even smaller footprint -- or fingerprint .
The ThumbDrive weighs in at just 18 grams and is roughly the size of the human digit for which it was named .
It plugs into the USB port , and has a capacity of up to 256 MB .
Yet , in contrast to the DiskOnKey , ThumbDrive requires a driver to be installed on Windows PCs .
it is not yet Mac- or Linux-compatible
The company recommends that drivers be downloaded from the Internet for those who want to use the ThumbDrive on more than one computer .
Trek 2000 president Marcus Chung said his company would be launching several new models of the ThumbDrive at Comdex , but declined to give specifics .
For people who want to be able to back up an entire PC -- or several for that matter -- to a portable storage device , the USB Flipdisk from Amacom Technologies offers 20 GB of storage , or 40 GB when the data is compressed .
This gadget incorporates a Toshiba 2.5-inch hard drive and is also available in PC card and parallel-port versions .
A fourth portable USB storage device , called Q , is made by Ei and is small enough to be put on a keychain .
The Q is available in three sizes and several colors .
16 MB , 32 MB and 64 MB
Analyst Jerel Whittingham , of the UK-based research firm Durlacher Corporation discussed the pros and cons of these new devices , saying that " mass storage is the third , neglected , key to digital functionality , along with bandwidth and processing power . "
" It 's key in the sense that it will enable new services and business models in both the mobile and portable domain , " he said . "
Obviously , mobile storage technology is more constrained for a variety of reasons as compared to devices in the home .
The easy click and insertion and removal of devices is attractive . "
these kinds of
Portable storage media like floppy disks , however , can be easily stolen or swapped into a variety of environments that could increase the likelihood of their becoming infected .
ThumbDrives website warns that the virus threat is a real one . "
ThumbDrive has been designed to become a mass storage device .
Therefore , it will behave like one , " the site reads , suggesting that antivirus software be used on each system .
" The same sort of security when you load a file from the Internet or from a floppy should be adhered to here , " said M-Systems ' Moran .
Tania Hershman is Associate Editor for Israel.internet.com




Who Won ?
Bookies Do n't Care

An ocean away from this most chaotic spectacle that is the U.S. presidential election , operators of a prominent British political betting house are enjoying the show .
" To be brutally honest , we do n't really mind .
We make money regardless of which of them wins , " said Graham Sharpe , spokesman for William Hill International , a Yorkshire bookmaker that takes wagers on electoral races and sporting events .
For the dead-heat presidential race of 2000 , the bookmaker collected $ 750,000 in bets over a period of more than two years .
On the eve of Election Day , the final tally placed Texas Gov. George W. Bush as the favorite .
The way the spread worked at the close of betting , a $ 2 bet placed on Bush would pay back just $ 3 if he won , while the same amount bet on Gore would pay back $ 5 .
Whatever the outcome , the bookmaker gets a small cut of the overall proceeds .
Of course , the only problem with that scenario thus far is there has n't been an outcome .
Officials at William Hill -- which collected nearly a third of its wagers from online bettors , mostly based in the U.S. -- are still about as clueless as a Florida election supervisor about when it will actually make a payout .
Sharpe says he 's hoping election officials will declare a winner next week , at which time the bookmaker expects to pay the winning betters .
He said the bookmaker almost certainly will n't wait for a pending Democratic Party lawsuit over a controversial ballot to wind its way through the court system .
In the meantime , the betting house has received numerous complaints from bettors impatiently waiting to collect their winnings .
" We told people to please address your complaints to the White House and not to us , " Sharpe said .
Despite the nefarious qualities routinely attributed to bookmakers , he said : " This time even we can n't be blamed for having manipulated the outcome of the U.S. election . "
While presidential-election betting is over , submissions are on the rise for some other long-term political wagers .
The odds for a long-shot bet on whether First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton will eventually become president have narrowed from 50 to 1 to 5 to 1 in the months leading up to her election as New York senator .
Meanwhile , Sharpe said he believes the turmoil of Election 2000 -- while not a great image-booster for the U.S. democratic process -- certainly makes for exciting betting .
" People are just looking at the spectacle of something so completely unexpected , " he said . "
Here 's the most powerful democracy in the world , and it could all hinge on a few votes someone may have left behind a door or something . "




Lucy In the Sky , With Therapists

Psychedelics such as ecstasy , LSD and mushrooms are n't just for ravers and Deadheads .
Not by a long shot .
Psychotherapists around the country say if you 're using these hallucinogenics as party drugs you 're missing the point .
As psychotherapeutic agents , many researchers say , they are an immensely valuable and untapped resource .
Folks ranging from computer executives to elderly women to church leaders are participating in psychotherapy enhanced by psychedelics , typically thought of as party enhancers for teenagers or burn-outs .
" It 's one of the most fascinating things happening in psychology today , " said a San Francisco clinical psychotherapist who asked to remain anonymous . "
I have no question that in many ways it 's much better psychotherapy than I could ever do by sitting and talking .
But basically I do n't choose to do that out of a fear of going to jail . "
Indeed , people who facilitate and participate in psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy are an extremely underground and secretive bunch .
The $ 350 to $ 400 sessions , mostly done in groups , are never advertised .
It 's strictly word of mouth .
There are at least seven such therapy groups in the San Francisco Bay Area , and certainly plenty of others around the country , whose members risk jail time in order to , they say , explore the deepest crevasses of their minds .
The legal risks are worth the insights gained , according one longtime client of the psychedelic sessions who asked to remain anonymous .
" This kind of work goes to a much deeper level , " she said . "
You get a whole lot more than you would in a one-hour session with a therapist .
...
It reaches different transpersonal levels . "
They also say it 's worth the possible health risks .
The first study on methylenedioxymethamphetamine , or MDMA , to show proof that MDMA dangerously depletes the brain of the mood-regulating hormone serotonin was published in Neurology in June .
better known as ecstasy
Federal researchers say that other drugs used in these group therapies -- lysergic acid diethylamide , gamma-hydroxybutyrate and ketamine -- can result in confusion , memory loss , high blood pressure , delirium , psychosis , coma and even death .
LSD
GHB
also called Special K
Dr. Lester Grinspoon , an associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School who sued the DEA when it declared ecstasy a schedule 1 controlled substance in 1985 , said he does n't quite trust studies performed by the < a href="National Institute of Drug Abuse .
" The NIH is a wonderful institution as a whole and truly their interest is in science , " Grinspoon said . "
But the NIDA really lost it where science is concerned and has become a ministry of drug propaganda . "
Still , researchers outside the United States have come to similar conclusions .
Dr. Andy Parrott , of the department of psychology at the University of East London , published a study in the medical journal Psychopharmacology showing that young , recreational ecstasy users had impaired memory function compared with non-user controls .
" This drug should not be administered to humans , especially on a repeated basis , " Parrott said .
Nevertheless , many medical professionals and psychologists say the gains outweigh the risks .
The longtime client mentioned above is also about to become a therapist herself .
She has completed her master 's degree in psychotherapy , and is in the process of completing 3,000 hours of a client-work internship necessary to become a licensed therapist .
She has participated in about 12 psychedelic therapy sessions in the past two years .
She said she has no fear of ill-effects from most of the drugs , although she favors more studies of ecstasy to determine the effects of its repeated use .
" In terms of going into a psychotic state , that might happen when drugs are used in very careless way , such as without a group involved or as a party drug , " she said . " is very careful both in terms of dosage and of what they use for your particular issues . "
The group therapy
Responsible use of psychedelics , she said , means being sufficiently prepared for the session , having a guide on hand at all times and knowing how to " integrate " the experience afterward .
A typical session -- which is , pardon the expression , an overnight trip -- goes something like this :
Clients typically arrive at a rented space in a rural setting on a Friday evening , after having fasted for the previous 12 hours .
Medical professionals are commonly on hand and the facilitators are often experienced and licensed therapists .




Gateway Connects ; Will Consumers ?

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Marking its official entry into the Internet appliance race , Gateway joined its new partners America Online , Broadcom and Transmeta on Friday to demonstrate new products designed to provide easier Internet access to home users .
Gateway showed off its $ 299 Connected Music Player , a networked audio player , and the $ 599 Gateway Connected Touch Pad , a flatscreen Internet appliance powered by Transmeta 's high-speed , low-power Crusoe processor .
GTW
In an effort to attract the Christmas shopper , Gateway officials say they 'll begin accepting orders on Dec. 1 and ship the stuff starting Dec. 15 .
The Connected Touch Pad runs on the Mobile Linux operating system and Netscape 's Gecko browsing engine , and comes preloaded with America Online 's new service , Instant AOL , which has an interface specifically designed for home users of Internet appliances .
AOL
According to Gateway , the " Connected Home " will be the heart of the company 's new offerings .
Gateway said Thursday that it had formed a strategic relationship with Broadcom Corporation .
Broadcom will be providing its Home Phoneline Networking Alliance 2.0 chipsets as standard equipment for all new Gateway PCs and appliances .
BRCM
HomePNA
This allows customers to connect Gateway PCs and Gateway appliances using existing telephone lines . .
In 2001 , Gateway plans to introduce new appliances that will be compatible with what the company is calling the Gateway Connected Home System .
Future products will allow users to network their TVs to their PCs and assign each phone in their home its own unique Internet address , essentially networking their home phone system .
Many PC companies are flailing around , looking for something else that they can produce now that PC sales and prices are flat-lining , said Jerome Adler , a " new economy " economist at Rutgers University .
PC companies seem to be betting that providing home networking capacities , Internet devices and technical support to home users will be " their savior , " Adler said .
But consumer reaction to these devices has " so far been pretty cold , " he added . "
The hard-core computer fans say they are too limited , and people who do n't like computers certainly do n't crave these gadgets , either .
" But since AOL is promoting it to their huge user base , Gateway may have a good shot at this market . "
The Gateway Connected Touch Pad connects to the Net only by using Instant AOL .
Instant AOL has e-mail and instant messaging capabilities , a family " Notepad " and Web features geared for home users : recipe files , shopping lists , a TV guide and the like .
Compaq 's entry into the Internet device market , iPaq , released last summer , uses Microsoft 's MSN Internet service .
3Com 's Audrey , released last month , is compatible with any Internet service provider .
Adler said it 's hard to tell yet whether the property or open model will capture consumer interest .
Gateway 's Touch Pad can be placed on a flat surface or mounted on a wall , and includes both touch and wireless keyboard interfaces .
It can connect to the Internet via a dialup connection or , if it 's part of a PC network , it can operate at broadband speeds .
56k
Demonstrators informed the assembled audience that the Gateway Connected Touch Pad is the first " high-traffic " Internet appliance , designed for use in " areas of the home -- such as the kitchen or family room - &ndash; where PCs typically are not located . "
This didn&rsquo;t go over too well with the Manhattan-based audience of industry analyst and media tech-freaks , many of whom could n't quite seem to understand why people would n't have computers in their living rooms .
" So where do suburbanites they keep their computers ?
In the bedroom ?
That 's pretty perverse , " quipped Les O'Donnell , a freelance technology writer who attended the demo .
Gateway also showed off its Connected Music Player which , when networked with a computer , allows users to listen to music files stored on a PC .
The Player can be connected to a standard stereo system , or , when paired with powered speakers , can be used as a stand-alone audio player .
The company also briefly demonstrated an Internet appliance specifically for use in the kitchen , and a wireless Web tablet .
Both products are expected to be available next year .




Dutch Biometrics A Go-Go

If biometric technology had been in place at the nightclub where Sean " Puffy " Combs and Jennifer Lopez ran into trouble last year , perhaps the whole shooting mess could have been avoided .
Or perhaps not .
But some nightclub owners are n't taking chances on violence at their clubs , and are using biometrics to stop problems before they happen .
Fifteen nightclubs in the Netherlands are now testing a system of face scanners , fingerprint scanners and smartcards that will be used to identify and possibly turn away certain patrons .
The system targets not rap stars and their bodacious girlfriends , but repeated troublemakers .
" The club scene in the Netherlands is not really like America 's , " said Elizabeth Marshall of Keyware Technologies , which makes the fingerprint and face scanners for the system . "
They 're open till 11 a.m. , and they have a lot of trouble with hooligans who just want to start fights . "
While drugs like marijuana and ecstasy are generally tolerated in the clubs , cocaine and heroin are not , and owners will also use the biometric system to identify dealers of these hard drugs , Marshall said .
The system consists of two kiosks that sit outside the club 's door , one for people new to the system , and another for returning patrons .
First-time patrons go to the first kiosk and input their name , address , and age , and have their face and fingerprint scanned .
All this information is stored on a smartcard that is sent to the person via certified mail , and is also stored on a database maintained by the Dutch company Interstrat .
About a day later , a club owner can review the database and decide whom he or she wants to bar from the club , and can place that person on the club 's blacklist by submitting the person 's name to Interstrat .
When the patron returns to the club the second time -- smartcard in hand -- he or she goes to the returning-patron kiosk , swipes the card , and has their fingerprint scanned to make sure it 's a match .
At the same time , a camera scans the person 's face and the kiosk checks it against red-flagged faces in Interstrat 's blacklist database .
If the person has been flagged , they can be refused entry into the club .
Interstrat maintains each club 's own database of troublemakers , and also a " central blacklist " that contains names of club-goers who have been arrested or flagged by police as repeated troublemakers .
This central blacklist is circulated to all the clubs on the system , Interstrat CEO Ron Velders said .




Forget Movies , Give Techies Tech

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Looking for ways to attract the top tech experts to your company ?
Then pack up the pool tables , give away the golf clubs and forget about foosball .
According to a recent study conducted by Techies.com , the benefit that techies want most is ... technology .
More than a third of the survey 's respondents wanted discounted or free PC equipment for use at home .
Employer-supplied home Internet access came in second , and the option to telecommute came in a close third .
But a significant number of those who participated in the study requested benefits that the survey 's creators had assumed were already a basic part of employment packages : adequate health insurance and retirement plans .
Techies.com , an information-technology recruitment firm , surveyed 987 full-time technology employees to see what three additional benefits -- outside of the assumed standards like health care and retirement programs &ndash; - they 'd most like their employer to introduce .
Survey respondents were given a list of 40 possible benefits , ranging from typical offerings such as company-paid relocation and free coffee and soda to the more obscure perks such as pet day care and dancing lessons .
Techies.com content VP Cynthia Morgan said that she and her co-workers were surprised by two things - &ndash; " one good and one not so good " -- as they tabulated the survey responses .
The good surprise in the survey , Morgan said , was that despite their reputation for demanding wild perks before coming to work for a company , techies really want tools that help them work better or take a break from the office .
The not-so-good discovery was that many people " still felt compelled to write in insurance and retirement plans in the 40th blank , " Morgan said .
other
" And these were n't part-time , low-paid employees .
These are people making $ 75,000 with managerial titles in companies of 100 or more people and they were still complaining that they did n't have adequate health insurance .
I find that disturbing , " Morgan said .
About 6 percent of those surveyed said they 'd rather concentrate on getting basic benefits before they worried about getting free computers or on-site massages .
Others put in strong bids for some type of child care , especially on-site day care .
And several wondered when benefits for domestic partners would become standard practice at U.S. companies .
A significant number also desired more time off .
And when they were working overtime , they 'd like free meals .
Also scoring high were sabbaticals , help in adopting children and buying a home , Morgan said .




Becoming Your Own Hospital

CAMBRIDGE , Massachusetts -- When scientists gather to talk about the latest advances in medical technology , the new-fangled gadgetry they unveil almost always finds its home within the traditional doctor-hospital-HMO structure now central to the healthcare industry .
But even a decade ago , according to the New England Journal of Medicine , Americans made more visits to " alternative " practitioners than they did to the old-fashioned doctor 's office .
Where are their gizmos ?
On Monday , MIT 's Media Lab launches a new technology initiative that -- while it may not draw upon the Dr. Andrew Weils of the alternative medical world -- shares some principal tenets with what is today deemed " non-traditional medicine . "
" We 've taken the traditional medicine model about as far as we can , " said Alex Pentland , Academic Head of the Media Lab and one of the principal investigators behind the lab 's Health Initiative .
Sandy
" By ' medicine ' I mean , when it breaks you fix it .
That 's really what the whole medical system is built around .
But now we need to move to something where people take responsibility for themselves , and we need to be able to give them the tools to do that .
That 's the distinction between ' health ' and ' medicine .
' "
Pentland and his colleagues in the Media Lab 's new program propose that societies in the 21st century will no longer want , or be able to afford , the kind of trauma-triage treatments that are now the bread and butter of the medical industry .
" One of the reasons is pure demographics , " Pentland said . "
We 're going to have a whole bunch of seniors walking around ; they 're going to need a whole lot of care .
There are n't going to be enough people to do it , which is to say nothing about the amount of money needed to do that .
So what are you going to do ?
We 're going to have to give them tools to know about themselves and take care of themselves . "
What kinds of tools does he mean ?
Delivering the keynote address at Monday 's launch is Dr. Mauro Ferrari of Ohio State University and the fledgling micro-engineering company iMEDD .
Ferrari 's work centers around using nanotechnology -- also known as bio-micro-electromechanical systems , or biomems -- as a means to deliver drugs , supplements and therapies to specific sites in the body or to draw out a dosage over weeks , months or years .
As he said in an April press conference , " Our nanotechnologies are infinitesimally small drug delivery devices , offering a host of potential applications .
For example , our drug devices may be able to replace frequent insulin injections with a one-time implantation of tiny silicon capsules beneath the skin . "
Another area of research and development focus is portable and wearable technology , which Media Lab professor and Health initiative participant Michael Hawley has concentrated on .
As he told Wired magazine in April 1998 , " Medicine will be the great driver for wearables research over the next few years .
Soon we 'll have shoes that know more about you than your doctor does .
" Computers are ugly .
People , by and large , hate hardware and software ; it is bought and used out of basic needs , not passions .
But clothes must be well designed .
They have to be comfortable , intimate , functional , appealing .
When computing becomes as basic as Jockey shorts , as sexy as lingerie , as cute as a Swatch , as durable as denim , as porous as Gore-Tex , as absorbent as Pampers , as fleet-footed as Nikes ... and when all of the energy and thrill of the Internet is bubbling through your seams and pockets , when high tech and high fashion collide , the result will be a big change , not just skin-deep repackaging . "
Neither of the above are strictly " alternative " or " traditional " in their technological slant .
They are , however , probably more traditional than alternative .
But Pentland said that over the next 20 or 30 years , the distinction between alternative and traditional medicine may narrow quite considerably .




Why Sand Deserts Africa

CHARLOTTESVILLE , Virginia -- Since boyhood , Bob Swap knew he wanted a career studying the same outdoors where he and his friends enjoyed playing .
But the 40 ish University of Virginia environmental sciences researcher would not have expected to someday work with NASA on figuring out how dust from the Sahara makes its way to the Amazon .
Swap was appointed by NASA in 1999 as U.S. coordinator for an innovative project called SAFARI 2000 , the Southern Africa Regional Science Initiative .
The project is part of a three-year study that will evaluate the carbon dioxide and methane levels in the global atmosphere , along with a host of other environmental indicators , Swap said .
The international effort involves more than 200 scientists from nine nations -- the United States , Australia , Britain , Belgium , Canada , France , Germany , Portugal and Sweden .
" I always enjoyed tromping around in the wilds , " Swap said , which comes from doing ecological research of the Chesapeake Bay as an undergraduate student .
This led to graduate-level field work studying the Amazon basin .
" One of the things the researchers stumbled across in the Amazon was dust coming in with big rainstorms , " he said .
The team eventually determined that it was Saharan dust from Africa being transported across the Atlantic Ocean into the Amazon basin in South America .
The scientists wanted to know how the transcontinental movement occurred , and decided to go looking for it in the skies above .
Before that could happen , they needed to know the environmental characteristics of the Sahara in North Africa as well as the more industrial southern half of the continent , and how they impacted other areas of the globe , said Swap .
The African atmosphere has a major effect on the air quality worldwide , Swap said . "
Africa is a big piece of the puzzle .
Our goal is to characterize the whole regional atmospheric unit in southern Africa , and eventually integrate it into computer models .
We need to know how Africa fits into the global climate picture . "
Swap said southern Africa has undergone a great deal of industrialization in recent decades .
Five of the world 's 10 largest coal-burning power plants reside in the region , operating without benefit of the pollution-reducing " scrubbers " required in the West .
Nations there also are burning huge expanses of forest and grasslands to accommodate agricultural expansion , he said .
Swap said SAFARI is also gathering data on natural phenomena that could contribute to an acceleration in global warming .




Introducing Touchy-Feely Tech

A pair of British inventors has developed an electricity-conducting fabric that could lead to washable , wearable phones , keyboards and other devices .
The pair have already made a cloth keyboard for handheld computers and a spongy cell phone that will go through the wash .
Designers say the new material could lead to an explosion in " soft products . "
Developed by Chris Chapman and David Sandbach , a pair of sculptors turned industrial designers , Elektex is made from conductive fibers woven into ordinary cloth .
Like traditional fabric , Elektex can be washed and ironed , and is extremely durable and cheap to make .
But because it conducts electricity , the fabric lends itself to a whole class of new applications .
It could be used for a TV remote control built into the arm of a sofa , or a keyboard woven into a pair of trousers or the sleeve of a jacket .
It may lead to carpets that generate sounds or music when walked on , or a smart hospital blanket that prevents bed sores by warning nurses when an immobile patient needs to be moved .
As well as a keyboard and mobile phone , Elektex has already been used to make a smart car seat that automatically adjusts itself to the position of the occupant .
The inventors also made a necktie that doubles as the keypad for a mobile phone .
" This is seriously going to make a difference to product interfaces , " said Chapman . "
It 's a huge opportunity for people to reinvent what products look like and to invent products that have never been done before . "
The fabric works by detecting changes in conductivity across its intricate web of conducting fibers .
Special software monitors the fabric , pinpointing exactly where deformations occur when the fabric is pressed .
The result is a cloth version of a touch screen , but one that can also tell how firm the button-presses are .
" When it is compressed it changes its conductivity , " explained Chapman . "
That is monitored by the software to tell where , and how much it is depressed . "
Chapman and Sandbach developed the technology over the past couple of years and cofounded a company , Electrotextiles , to exploit it .
The pair met at the Exeter School of Art , where they studied sculpture , and ended up working in special effects at Pinewood studios .
A few years ago they made some hardware for a space mission , which lead to work designing medical sensors .
A dissatisfaction with the inflexibility and rigidity of medical sensors prompted the pair to look at electro-conductive fibers , originally developed for static-dissipation in carpet and other fabrics .
To turn the fiber into cloth , the pair learned fabric-making techniques , figuring out how to weave and knit the very fine , electrically conductive fibers into material .
They did it using established industrial processes , which will vastly cut expenses when it comes to mass producing products .
Chapman said after developing Elektex they looked for mass-market products suited to it .
One of the first things they built was a cell-phone tie .
The electronics of the phone were built into a small capsule near the collar , while the tie itself was the dial-pad .
" It worked beautifully , " said Chapman , " What could be more convenient than something that 's tied around your neck ? "
But it was a bit too geeky , people did n't take it seriously . "
So the pair started work on a raft of protoype products in communications , medicine , toys and the automotive , and sports and leisure industries , and began licensing the technology .
About 20 companies have signed up so far , Chapman said .
Chapman said agreements with licensees prevented him from discussing most of the new products , but they are showing off the keyboard , the cell phone and the smart car seat to illustrate Elektex 's potential .
" A big problem we have is people do n't believe it does what it does , " he added . "
So we have to make these things to demonstrate it . "
The first batch of prototype products will be unveiled at the Museum of Modern Art 's WorkSpheres show in February .




ISP in Dutch Over IPO

Dutch-based Internet Service Provider World Online said on Monday its headquarters had been raided in connection with allegations of insider trading around the company 's disastrous initial public offering in March .
World Online issued a statement saying the Prosecutor of the Justice Department in Amsterdam began the investigation earlier on Monday .
The company said it is cooperating with investigators who are still at the company 's headquarters in Rotterdam .
Founder Nina Brink has been at the center of the controversy over the IPO , after World Online shares -- floated at 43 euros on March 17 -- nose-dived when news got out that Brink had sold most of her stake for six euros per share prior to the IPO .
- - -
Flights via mobile phone : United Airlines , the world 's largest airline , will offer a new service that lets customers book flight tickets and view travel itineraries through Internet-enabled mobile phones .
UnitedNetWorks said it believes United is the first airline to offer these services , which can be accessed through any Wireless Application Protocol-enabled phone .
UAL
- - -
No more groceries : Streamline.com , which delivers groceries and other items ordered over the Internet , said it is winding down its operations and plans to discontinue service effective 22 Nov.
Streamline.com said in a statement that it began exploring financial alternatives in May , culminating in the September sale of its Washington and Chicago operations to Peapod , which is 51 percent owned by Dutch supermarket giant Ahold .
SLNE
PPOD
AHLN
Since then , talks with potential investors and strategic partners seeking additional financing or , alternatively , to sell the company 's remaining operations have proved unsuccessful , Streamline.com said .
- - -
Wal-Mart 's selling Visors : Handspring , a maker of handheld computing devices , said Wal-Mart Stores would begin selling its products , allowing Handspring to expand its customer base .
HAND
Under the reseller deal with Wal-Mart , the world 's largest retailer will sell Handspring 's Visor handheld computers and accessories as well as some Springboard expansion modules in 500 stores nationwide starting later this month .
WMT
- - -
Losses R Us : Toy-seller Toys R Us posted a third-quarter loss of $ 65 million as the company 's investment in its Internet operations continued to hurt results .
The Paramus , N.J.-based company said its net loss for the quarter , ended 28 Oct. , amounted to 32 cents per share , versus a year-earlier profit of 6 cents a share , or $ 15 million .
TOY
Wall Street analysts on average had expected the retailer to report a loss of 33 cents a share , according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial .
- - -
HP falls short : Computer and printer maker Hewlett-Packard reported fourth-quarter earnings that were far short of Wall Street expectations because of margin pressures , adverse currency effects and higher-than-expected expenses .
Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard also said it had terminated talks to buy the consulting business of PricewaterhouseCoopers .
HWP
Hewlett-Packard reported fourth-quarter earnings per share of 41 cents , excluding certain charges .
Analysts had been expecting 51 cents per share , according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial .
Reuters contributed to this report .




End of the Line for iCast ?

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Entertainment Web portal iCast will cease to exist on Jan. 31 , 2001 if a buyer for the struggling site can n't be found , CMGI announced on Monday .
Some reports , officially unconfirmed but widely believed throughout the industry , had indicated that Rupert Murdoch 's News Corporation was interested in buying iCast .
But CMGI executives stressed they were still looking for a buyer .
CMGI had pledged in September that it would strengthen its bottom line in 2001 , and CEO David Wetherell said during a conference call that this goal required CMGI to " refocus only on properties and investments with the potential for a dramatic profit . "
Wetherell said the company still believes in the potential profitability of online entertainment sites .
But he added that the capital investment required to produce content for entertainment sites , combined with CMGI 's long road to profitability , precluded any additional CMGI investment in iCast , which was not expected to show a profit for " several years . "
CMGI 's decision to shut down or sell iCast was n't unexpected .
ICast has long been " the black sheep in CMGI 's cozy incubator , " said Robert Buckman , a digital music reporter . "
ICast has never turned a profit and has recently experienced two major layoffs and the very raucous departure of several top executives . "
Hopes remain for salvaging the site .
ICast public relations director Stu Zakimt told the media after the last round of layoffs on Sept. 14 , " nobody 's pulling the plug on this site .
...
We 're stronger than ever . "
But after Monday 's announcement , " the countdown to iCast 's extinction has officially begun , " said Buckman .
CMGI , which owns or has investments in more than 70 online companies , has seen its stock plummet 90 percent from a peak of $ 302 in April 1999 to a close of $ 14.13 on Monday .
CMGI
ICast offers Web radio , streaming video presentations of short films , MP3s and iCaster , a downloadable player that supports CDs , MP3s , live streams , and instant messaging .
Most of the site 's content centers heavily on self-promotional vehicles for new artists .
ICast , which employs about 200 people , did not return calls or e-mails requesting comment , nor did potential buyer News Corporation .
" ICast is another site that 's in the repackaging business -- they repackaged content from traditional media and put it onto the Web .
They did n't offer anything that a hundred or so other Internet-based entertainment sites offer . "
did n't
Incubators have invested money and time into making these sites work , but none of them have really clicked .
Scour , Pop.com , and the Digital Entertainment Network have all fallen on hard times in the past few months , said Nathan Vonder , an analyst with digital media consultancy firm Petersen and Pover .
Vonder said profit potential for entertainment sites is only possible when a company is backed by a strong partner with access to commercially recognized and highly popular content .
He cites the Bertelsmann Music Group/Napster marriage as an example of a company that " may pull together something interesting . "
He also said he was interested to see what happened with the " ever-pending " AOL/Time Warner partnership .
" And obviously Murdoch 's far-flung entertainment and news empire would be a good match for iCast , " Vonder added .




Sea Launch No Longer Adrift

WASHINGTON -- It 's a scene right out of a James Bond movie : A rocket blazes into orbit from a launch pad perched atop a renovated oil rig in a deserted corner of the Pacific Ocean .
But instead of a death laser aimed at Washington , the rockets departing from Sea Launch 's platform at the equator carry far more commercial payloads : Direct TV , radio , and cellular telephone satellites .
At least that was the plan .
Sea Launch 's third mission met an agonizing end in March when a Ukrainian- and Russian-made Zenit 3 SL rocket failed to reach orbit and crashed into the ocean about 2,700 miles away from the launch platform .
An internal investigation blamed a software error that failed to close a valve before liftoff .
The chastened company got its space legs back last month , when it successfully sent the Thuraya-1 communications satellite into orbit on Oct. 21 .
At 11,260 pounds , company representatives say it was the heaviest payload ever to be sent successfully into geosynchronous transfer orbit .
At a Washington Space Business Roundtable on Monday , Sea Launch executives stressed that they feel confident the company can continue to deliver successful launches .
" Obviously , I have complete confidence in our operation , " Sea Launch president Will Trafton said . "
Look , our business is based on confidence , and primarily our customer confidence .
If that confidence is not there , then we 're out of business . "
" I like where we are right now and think we 're here for the long haul , " Trafton said .
Customers do n't seem to be particularly worried .
Trafton said Sea Launch , which launches from the equator because it reduces fuel cost and increases accuracy , is planning on four missions in 2001 ; and plans to increase that to seven a year by 2003 .
He said 14 launches are already sold for the future , and that the company can launch eight times per year .
The company is trying to position itself as the first choice for heavy commercial launches .
Trafton said it hopes to increase its payload capacity to upwards of 13,200 pounds by 2002 .
But it 's facing stiff competition from companies like International Launch Services , an American-Russian joint venture that has successfully completed 12 missions this year , including one last month that carried a U.S. government communications satellite aloft .
Arianespace , a French firm , has completed nine missions this year and is scheduled to launch an Ariane 5 rocket on Tuesday .
Sea Launch was founded in 1995 .
Its investors include Boeing , which owns 40 percent of the operation ; RSC-Energia of Moscow , which owns 25 percent ; Anglo-Norwegian Kvaerner Group of Oslo , which owns 20 percent ; and SDO Yuzhnoye/PO Yuzhmash of the Ukraine , which owns 15 percent .
According to Sea Launch 's statistics , the renovated oil platform is self-propelled , 436 feet long by 220 feet wide , and it can accommodate 68 people .
Nicholas Morehead contributed to this report .




Old Ideas in ' New ' PC Games

PC gaming is caught in a cycle of copycatting as it enters the holiday season , according to both industry watchers and hardcore gamers .
" There are no original ideas anymore , just reshapes or rehashes , " complained William Harms , executive editor of CNET 's Gamecenter , a site devoted to gaming news and reviews .
Consolidation in the PC game industry has created big , public companies that are forced to focus on near-term profits -- or face investors ' wrath .
So many manufacturers turn to games that can be churned out quickly and have a built-in audience .
In other words , sequels and knock-offs .
" The general level of quality has gone up .
But it 's gotten harder to innovate , " said Greg Kasavin , senior editor at Gamespot , another gaming-focused site .
This malaise could n't come at a worse moment .
The holidays are the gaming industry 's most important time of the year , with nearly 60 percent of sales traditionally coming in the fourth quarter , according to MCV , a gaming-trade publication .
" This year 's expectations are lower than last year 's , " gaming enthusiast Chai Lim said . "
There are no real high-impact games running into the Christmas season . "
Several highly anticipated games -- including god simulation Black and White and team-based adrenaline fix Tribes 2 -- are delayed and may miss the holiday window .
And most of the year 's big games have been long released .
PC Data reports that seven of the top 10-selling PC games for the week of Oct. 15 are from the franchises that have been dominating sales charts for most of the year -- Diablo II , Age of Empires II , Roller Coaster Tycoon and The Sims .
Signs point to the rankings staying fairly stable over the next few months .




It Ai n't Easy Being Light

Over 1,000 designers , engineers , and students gathered in Amsterdam this weekend to address the issue of lightness in design , and , as organizers put it , the fact that " a strange thing happened to the ' weightless ' and dematerialised economy we thought the Internet would bring : It never arrived ! "
The sixth Doors of Perception conference , taking place in Amsterdam Nov. 11-13 , started with discussions of what lightness actually means , as well as suggesting new ways to perceive and map it .
Its finale will focus on actual applications of this knowledge .
The conference tackled many nettlesome issues : the role of open-source and file-sharing software on design methodology , the need for more strategic alliances in order to withstand impending ecological doom , and ways to dismiss the clichs that reflexively associate " ecological " with , as festival moderator John Thackara put it , " less stuff , less change , less fun . "
Through its varied assortment of speakers and presentations , the conference successfully showed that green does n't need to be a dirty word .
The tone was breezy , mildly flippant , and lightness was woven into the very fabric of the event : Its symbol is a trippy doily , its drab conference-hall setting spruced up with diaphanous textiles , and the short presentations added lots of space to the program itself .
Except for a few episodes of unreconstructed corporate chest-pounding -- more suited to this week 's Comdex fair in Las Vegas -- the eclectic speakers here all stressed the inherent value of a light touch .
and not the market
The ideas on display addressed wastefulness in the design of both things as well as information .
One example was the home , which used to be a simple place .
Over time it has been stuffed to the brink with weighty technologies like TVs and stereos , but the convergence of technologies is allowing it to shed some pounds .
Webby Award founders Maya Draisin and Tiffany Shlain demonstrated how the Internet was born very light , grew unsustainably bloated , and is now downsizing itself in step with what users actually want , i.e. anything but megabytes of indecipherable icons and skippable intros .
Witness the Digital Entertainment Network , which sank under its own weight , while Napster remains light , aloof , and ascendant .
Spanish designer Mart Guix demonstrated how a series of simple twists can provide graceful solutions to problems of design and waste .
Among them , temporary tattoos that serve as rulers and subway maps , a shoe store that uses its leftover boxes as furniture , and branded food that pays its own way : CK emblazoned on our pizzas , IBM writ large on our black beans .
Of course , no one 's saying that achieving all this lightness is simple .
As in ballet , it takes a lot of effort to make something complex look easy .
As Doors ' spokeswoman Jane Szita eloquently noted , " less is more work . "
In a conference of this scope , it 's not surprising to encounter a host of contradictions .
Brian Eno presented the Long Now Foundation 's ultralight Rosetta Disk , which stores a text written in a thousand languages on a 2-inch nickel plate that will outlive any data rot or discarded operating systems .
along with clues for future cryptographers to make sense of them




Put Transit Time to Work

LAS VEGAS -- Those idle hours in the car and on the plane do n't have to be spent reading bumper stickers or watching bad movies anymore .
Companies that grew out of GM and Boeing want to make every moment of your commute time productive with services to keep you connected while doing 60 or 600 miles per hour .
At the Comdex IT trade show on Monday , Onstar launched a traffic service aimed at alerting drivers to anything that could slow down their commute .
Onstar , through partnerships with location-based services company Etak and broadcaster Westwood One , will deliver information to a vehicle about possible travel delays -- including accidents , road congestion , construction , and bad weather -- based on the vehicle 's location .
The company , a General Motors spin-off , also announced the OnStar Virtual Advisor , which enables subscribers to personalize the delivery of Internet content including stock quotes , sports reports , news , weather as well as provide e-mail access .
The voice-activated service plays through the car stereo .
The service will launch in the northeastern United States in December and in the rest of the country in early 2001 .
The Virtual Advisor will not distract the driver because it lacks a display , Onstar president Chet Huber said .
He said that customers will be able to enter their preferred traffic routes and receive warnings if any part of the trip could be hindered .
In the future , subscribers will also be able to query the system to find out if there are delays on the highway for the next 20 miles .
Huber said that in the future the location-tracking capability could be used for commerce .
Customers could request the nearest restaurant , entering a credit card number to correspond with their vehicles so that the company could track where the order came from .
Huber said Onstar will be installed in more than 1 million GM cars by the end of the year , and the company will also offer the service to some models of Lexus , Audi and Honda vehicles in 2001 .




Bluetooth Comes to Your Notebook

LAS VEGAS -- Your boss says you need to meet on Thursday at 3 p.m. to discuss the budget , so you write it down in your daily organizer .
As you leave her office , she says " Make sure you enter our 3 o'clock into your Palm , " to which you humbly reply , " It 's already in there . "
Swedish startup Anoto is making this a reality with wireless digital paper that can be printed as any notepad , personal organizer , memo pad or Post-It note .
At Comdex this week , Anoto announced that nine leading office-products manufacturers would be integrating the technology into their paper products .
" Pen and paper is the most common communication interface in the world , so we decided to integrate it with the digital world " said Anoto Vice President Anders Tormod .
The digital paper looks just like an ordinary page , but has an almost imperceptible layer of dots forming a pattern that uniquely identifies the pages .
Information from the page gets passed on by the pen to a nearby Bluetooth-enabled device , including PDAs , mobile phones or PCs .
The pen , which looks like a thick fountain pen , includes a Bluetooth transmitter , a camera , an image processor , and of course , some ink .
The camera actually traces your pen stroke , and converts the " mini-movie " of the pen 's path into an image that is sent wirelessly to a device .
Tormod said that the company has built up an index of billions of unique patterns that can be printed on pages so that each one can be identified by the receiving device .
This enables , for example , the November 19 page of a hard copy organizer to tell your PC to add a meeting to the November 19 section of your Palm 's calendar .
Tormod said the dots do not interfere with other printing on the page , and the company has signed up with office products companies including At-A-Glance , Esselte , Filofax , Franklin , Covey and Mead to incorporate the technology into their notebooks , organizers and other products .
Companies can also add " action " sections to their paper products .
For example , filling in an e-mail address on a section of a memo pad could generate a message that will be automatically forwarded to a Bluetooth-enabled mobile phone .
Anoto also demonstrated a business card with a check box that will e-mail its contents to a person 's PDA .
A catalog could have a " buy me " check box that will automatically create an online order .
Tormod said companies can combine the technology with handwriting-recognition software to automate filling out forms .
Tormod said the company is very closely replicating the pen and paper experience -- which means that , like the real stuff , the digital ink can n't be erased .
He said the paper products and Anoto 's pen should be out in the third quarter of 2001 , and he expects it to help fuel the demand for Bluetooth , the recently introduced short-distance wireless transmission technology .
Anoto , of Lund , Sweden , is a spinoff of C Technologies and has considerable experience with Bluetooth .
Anoto chairman Orjan Johansson created Bluetooth while working at Ericsson .
Anoto is creating what it calls the " world 's largest Web server " to index all of the unique patterns that it will license to the paper 's manufacturers .
Anoto will distribute the patterns to its partners so that the pages they print will correctly understand how to interact with the digital devices and not conflict with other digital paper .
Tormod said the cost of the extra ink for printing the patterns is marginal , and that the support from the paper companies will turn Anoto 's digital paper technology into a de facto standard .




Cubism , Web-Browser Style

LAS VEGAS -- A new browser that displays multiple Web pages inside a 3-D , cube-shaped window is being touted by its inventor as a breakthrough that will revolutionize the way people surf the Internet .
Developed by Philadelphia architect Mike Rosen , the 2 Ce browser is being shown for the first time to analysts and the press at this week 's Comdex .
In a hotel suite off the show floor , Rosen is demonstrating an early version of the 2 Ce browser , which displays six Web pages simultaneously as though they were the inside walls of a cube .
pronounced " to see "
" This will be the interface of choice for the information age , " said Rosen . "
When you turn on your computer in the morning , this is what you 'll see . "
The browser works with ordinary Web pages and is an alternative to having half-a-dozen browser windows open at once .
Instead , the 2 Ce browser allows six pages to be worked on simultaneously -- in the same window .
For example , Rosen showed the browser set up to display a search engine on the back wall , a stock trading page on the right and a news page on the left .
A calendar application was on the ceiling of the cube , and a Web-based e-mail page was on the floor .
Using a floating menu bar , Rosen swung around inside the cube and highlighted different sides on the back wall , which made it easier to work with them .
" When I was designing this , I knew the room metaphor -- with walls , a floor and a ceiling -- would be very easy to navigate and intuitive , " he said . "
It 's a very architectural . "
Rosen also showed a number of pre-set cubes , such as a " news cube " that displayed CNN on the back wall , The Wall Street Journal on the right , the Red Herring on the left , and so on .
" It concentrates information , " Rosen said . "
It 's a much more efficient way of looking at information . "
Rosen has founded a company , 2 Ce , based in Philadelphia , to bring the browser to market .
It will be available as a free download in the middle of next year .
He hopes to sell programming tools to Web developers and companies for use in corporate Intranets .
The tools will help developers optimize sites for the browser .
For example , a Web retailer could display its wares in 3-D along a corridor , Rosen said .
The browser will be also be useful for developers designing information-rich systems such as help desks , where operators need simultaneous access to numerous sources of information , Rosen said .
Rosen showed an iterative cube -- where each side is a cube , and each of that cube 's sides is a cube , and so on , with hundreds of pages in all .
While the pages were unreadable , Rosen said the system could be used to track stocks .
If there 's any change in a stock , the stock 's page flashes a warning and the user zooms right in.
As well as displaying multiple Web pages simultaneously , the browser can provide a visual record of where it has been , as well as how different pages are related to each other .




Dreaming About Nano Health Care

CAMBRIDGE , Mass. -- Leading health , technology and health technology professionals gathered on Monday to dream the increasingly possible wellness dream .
MIT 's Media Lab hosted the first gathering of its deceptively simply titled Health Special Interest Group .
This debut Health SIG gathering proposed to do no less than rethink the entire multibillion dollar medical industry and envision a future where the health-care dollar depends more upon the informed consumer and less on the passive patient .
" My basic idea is that new tools are giving consumers -- not patients -- the ability to take control of their health and maintain their lifestyle , " said Alex Pentland , academic head of the Media Lab and a prime mover behind the Lab 's new health-care focus .
" That will be the main front line where people take care of themselves , learn about themselves and take action for themselves .
Rather than a doctor contending only with the sick or the ' worried well , ' they may find a much more informed populace coming to their doorstep . "
As he presented it in the morning 's introductory remarks , four potential directions for research and development beckon : creating systems to encourage and enhance healthy behavior and learning ; designing wearable systems and smart environments ; creating and processing " data-rich , " personalized medical service and developing micro-fabricated biosensors for health maintenance , observation and early disease detection .
Pentland was n't the only dreamer in the crowd , though .
Indeed , one exercise for the afternoon was for the participants -- including many of the lab 's own free-ranging thinkers as well as representatives from across industry , academia and government -- to scribble out their wish lists : What 's the most important development in the " health industry " that they could hope for ?
Some saw it as an opportunity to get an early word in with Santa Claus ; others forecast a political , social or legal climate change as the key component to making the Health SIG 's dreams come true .
" ' Tricorder ' technology ? " one correspondent asked .
Other gadgetry must-haves included biological sensors in a pill , a personal health card that " does it all " , and even an oral health sensor on a toothbrush .
while guaranteeing privacy
On the other hand , one Health SIG participant wrote that the most important change was to " focus on the home as a center of health-care delivery , " while another requested " natural interfaces good enough for kids and elderly . "
And , seeking the ultimate e-nanny , one wrote : " The ideal product : An agent that will have access real-time to all my biometric info and that will nag me to do all the right things . "
Media Lab faculty , students and post-docs held court for most of the day , showcasing their health-related technological innovations -- although , at times , the relevance to the topic of the day involved some roundabout diversions by way of advanced statistics or toy castles made out of Lego bricks .
Perhaps the most far-reaching developments on display were found in the interface between wireless communications , biological sensors and nanotechnology .
The Lab 's new recruit , Scott Manalisnow , leads the nanoscale sensing vanguard -- moving toward remote microscopic laboratories that conduct body chemistry and genetic tests from anywhere , including inside a person 's body .
Manalis ' work was not only on display at Monday 's Health Initiative kickoff but also is one of the centerpieces of Tuesday 's Silicon Biology symposium .
" There 's a company that 's developed a pill that you can swallow that measures temperature in your body , " Manalis said . "
The pill is a little bigger than a vitamin C pill , but it has inside it a battery , an antenna and an oscillator so when the temperature changes it changes the frequency that comes out .
And you can wear something on your side , so you can measure the temperature inside your body . "
Other projects highlighted during the day included printable semiconductor chips for interfaces to biological sensors , wearable personal health monitors , computer applications for children undergoing kidney dialysis and diabetes therapy and a prototype " smart medical home . "
But , amidst the gee-whiz , a few voices from outside the Lab tempered their enthusiasm with notes of caution .
Jake Galler of Quest Diagnostics reminded that while consumers will be seeking more control over their health care -- as the group anticipates -- they 'll still be demanding a vigilant privacy policy over their records .
" I know I would not like to see my genomic sequence up on a website somewhere like sometimes you 'll see these financial returns of Hollywood stars , " he said . "
So that really is critical as we move forward . "
Furthermore , Mary Jo Deering of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services added two other crucial caveats .
" Eighty percent of the problems are not technology , " she said . "
They 're sociology and psychology .
The barriers are personal .
Professional and institutional behavior is more addictive than lifestyle behavior -- it 's harder to change .
You have to work overtime .
So as you design these systems , think of yourself as trying to change slow-moving oil tankers .
Pace yourself and be in it for the long term .
" And my final suggestion to you is in all the testing that I 've heard about and all the advisory panels , I have n't heard of any consumers and patients as your advisers .
I strongly urge that you do that .
To the extent that you have a home-based , person-based delivery system , you had better hear from the people who are going to use it . "




Holiday Bug May Be Catching

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
' Tis the season for surprises , some nice and some naughty .
A new worm called Navidad and a musical New Year 's virus known as W95.Ussrhymn@m are slowly spreading a not-so-festive holiday message through corporate computer systems .
Navidad has n't damaged any systems so far , and security experts say that the virus is currently rated a moderate threat .
W95.Ussrhymn@m is far more dangerous , but is spreading more slowly .
Both bugs have a holiday theme in common -- " Navidad " means Christmas in Spanish , and W95.Ussrhymn@m is programmed to start destroying files when it plays an old Soviet Republic hymn on Jan. 1 .
" Christmas time always seems to bring forth a deluge of dire bug warnings , and a couple of supposedly humorous real viruses , " said Tony Gont , a systems security adviser for the New York state 's government offices .
Navidad taunts users by telling them not to push a dialog box button and then claims that their system will be destroyed when they succumb to temptation and push the button .
But the worm does n't actually destroy files .
" W95.Ussrhymn@m " does affect the systems it attacks , causing lockups and slowdowns and overwriting basic systems operations .
W95.Ussrhymn@m will trigger itself on infected systems January first , and will then spread rapidly , attacking root system files .
The virus has the potential to cause serious damage , and is spread across networks via sharing infected files .
W95.Ussrhymn@m can also disable some virus scanning and security programs .
Navidad does n't annihilate your network , but it certainly is annoying , said Ian Murray , a London computer security administrator .
Navidad spreads through Microsoft 's Outlook e-mail application , and automatically mails itself as a reply to any messages that are sent to an infected machine .
" It 's one of those gifts that keeps on giving , " said Murray . "
If the recipient opens the attachment , " NAVIDAD.EXE , " and runs it , they 'll see a dialog box and a message in Spanish that reads : " Never press this button . "
If they press the button , they 'll see a message that says : " Feliz Navidad .
Unfortunately you have given in to temptation and will lose your computer . "
Vincent Gullotto , an antivirus researcher at security company McAfee.com , said that many of the worm-ridden Navidad e-mails originally appear to have come from Brazil and so he assumes that this bug originated in South America .
He declined to name the North American companies that have been infected so far .
" Navidad is not destructive , but it may cause your Windows system to lock up , " Gullotto said .
Navidad also places an icon of an eye in the computer 's system tray , and some users have reported that clicking on it caused their machines to slow down or freeze .
Some experts speculate that the virus may be able to do more damage to computers running the Spanish language versions of Microsoft 's Windows operating system , but this has not been confirmed .
" I doubt that it 's a language-localized virus , " said Murray . "
I think the writer who created this worm just has a wicked and warped sense of humor .
He or she was n't out to hurt people , just to test their lameness quotient . "




Random House Sets Royalty Rate

Random House becomes the first major publisher to deal with an issue debated between publishers , authors and agents for the last year , when it announced it will raise the royalty rate on electronic books from 15 percent of the cover price to 50 percent of net revenues .
" The old model had different incentives for the publisher and author , and we could sometimes end up in conflict , " said Erik Engstrom , president and chief operating officer of Random House . "
pricing
If we do it this way , we have exactly the same economic incentives . "
But while the 50 percent of net revenues seems like a giant step , it should be noted that the new royalty rate is based on net revenue after current distributor payments and allowances .
Most publishers use distributors who add Digital Rights Management software to the e-book files , and that 's an incremental cost .
" Fifty percent of net profits may not wind up being all that much more than 15 percent of the cover price , " said Adam Rothberg of Simon and Schuster .
Other publishing houses , including Time Warner and HarperCollins , are not ready to set rates .
They say it 's too soon to fix an e-book royalty rate since the market is not yet profitable .
Michael Cader , an industry analyst and editor of Publisher 's Lunch said the decision was sending an important message .
Higher royalty rates that make authors partners in the profit picture encourages them to stick with their publishers instead of trying to self publish their e-books as Stephen King and Seth Godin have recently done .
One of the most reliable , effective bookselling tools ever in publishing , Cader said , is the passionate author willing to reach out to and connect with his audience .
Such an author helps drive sales .
" Broader back-end participation and a sense of fairness gives authors a strong incentive to rely on major publishers as their partners in growing this market and reaching the electronic audience , " Cader said .
Smaller back-end participation , he suggested , even with advances , encourages authors to stay out of the fray or to go build these markets themselves .
E-books at Costco ?
Costco , BJ 's and Sam 's Clubs are among the stores that will soon offer e-books via their websites .
It 's the result of an agreement between Reciprocal -- a digital rights management and digital commerce services -- and Advanced Marketing Services -- a provider of customized services to book retailers and publishers in more than six countries .
AMS
It 's an interesting concept -- selling e-books at stores better known for good buys on traditional fare such as paper towels in bulk quantities .
But will it work ?
" A store like Costco 's strength is selling product , but that does n't mean they can evaluate all that content equally , " said Janet Lawson , the proprietor of BookBrowser . "
We are librarians , book readers and reviewers , and provide the context that helps people find material and make a good purchase . "
we
This development could work in BookBrowser 's favor .
As more websites that are n't bookstores sell books , content from readers-guide sites like BookBrowser , which posts 40 professional book reviews a week , could become more popular .




ICANN : The Winners Are ...

MARINA DEL REY , California -- Seven domains of the future on the World Wide Web were selected on Thursday .
Sometime next spring , companies , organizations and individuals very likely will be able to register with dot-biz , dot-info , dot-name , dot-pro , dot-museum , dot-aero , and dot-coop .
That 's the unanimous decision of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers , the Internet 's managing authority , which ended a long process to create new spaces in the Domain Name System in front of a tense meeting in this Southern California beachside town .
The new top-level domains and their winning sponsors are : Dot-biz , by JVTeam , LLC , which is composed of Neustar and Melbourn IT .
A suffix specifically for businesses , ICANN found it the strongest of several .biz proposals .
It is unclear how the company would handle requests from individuals and non-business groups .
Dot-info , by Afilias , LLC .
This international consortium of 19 companies dot-info as a truly global option , as most .com registrations are in the United States .
Dot-name , by the Global Name Registry Ltd. , which wants a category for individuals .
It would reserve second-level names such as smith.name and let individuals register john.smith.name or betty.smith.name .
It is not clear how the company would deal with multiple individuals named John Smith .
Dot-pro , by RegistryPro , Ltd , which is composed of register.com , Virtual Internet and Baltimore Tech.
This TLD is for professionals .
Physician John Doe , for example , could register as johndoe.med.pro .
If John Doe were a lawyer , he could register as johndoe.law.pro .
Individuals would have to prove their professional status .
Existing .com , .net and .org addresses do not require that documentation .
Dot-museum , by the Museum Domain Management Association , a group created through the International Council of Museums .
It wants the suffix for accredited museums worldwide .
Dot-aero , by the Societi Internationale de Tilicommunications Aironautiques .
Dot-coop , by the National Cooperative Business Association , which wants a special designation for business cooperatives such as credit unions and rural electric coops .
The suffix would be available for members of the group and its counterparts worldwide .
Needless to say , the operators of these future name spaces were pleased with the result .
Paul Hazen , president of National Cooperatives Business Association , said that the dot-coop domain will service the more than 750,000 cooperatives world wide along with the more than 750,000,000 cooperative members around the globe .
" This will make it easy to find cooperatives on the Web , " he said .
Sloan Guon , director of business for Regsiter.com , said that the dot-pro TLD will likewise help consumers . "
When they go to a dot-pro URL they 'll know that the information there is realiable , " he said .
Only credentialed professionals will be able to register dot-pro domain names , Goan said .
Register.com will be providing the back-end registry services for the top level domain .
The Domain Name System has not seen the introduction of new generic top-level domains since the mid-1980s when dot-net , dot-com and dot-org were added .
Since then , a number of country code top-level domains have been added -- .ps for the Palestinian Authority was the latest of these -- but the number of general-purpose TLDs of the dot-com variety has remained static .
ccTLDs
Much of the prime space in the dot-com registry is in private hands .
Because of this artificial scarcity and the value of name spaces on the Net , some companies have partnered with country-code TLD managers to turn country-specific , two-digit domain extensions into general-purpose top-level domains .
One example is dot-tv , which was repurposed from the ccTLD for the country of Tuvalu into more of a general-purpose top-level domain .
Since it began operating as a dot-com-like registry , the dotTV Corporation has seen 140,000 dot-tv domain name registrations .
Other repurposed ccTLDs include Tonga 's dot-to , and dot-ws -- which represents Western Samoa 's space on the Net .
Western Samoa is now known as Samoa .




Hey Computer , Read My Mind

ARLINGTON , Virginia -- Any serious Star Trek buff remembers the famous " Spock 's Brain " episode , in which the apparently primitive denizens of Sigma Draconis put the Vulcan 's prodigious mind to work as an environmental control computer .
When Dr. McCoy realizes the technically advanced surgery the natives have successfully performed , he exclaims aloud , " That 's not possible ! "
" But it is , " says Melody Moore , a research scientist at Georgia State University . "
Not in that capacity yet , but we 're beginning to understand brain activity , " she said . "
We can listen in on it .
We can intercept it .
We can interpret it . "
Moore was speaking on Tuesday not to a crowd of bespectacled Trekkies , but to the Association for Computing Machinery 's Conference on Assistive Technologies .
The event is designed to explore how computers can help disabled or handicapped people .
Moore and her colleagues are attempting a feat that 's nothing if not ambitious : controlling a computer through brain signals .
The key technology involved is called a neurotrophic electrode , which is about the size of the head of a ballpoint pen , and is designed to be directly inserted into a brain so it can interface with neurons .
It 's connected to a tiny amplifier and transmitter , which are inserted closer to the surface of the skin , just under the scalp .
Also present is a small power source that allows wireless transmission of the signals to a nearby computer .
Together the system allows a person such as a quadriplegic to perform on a computer basic functions that were heretofore impossible .
The PCs receiving the neural-signal data sport custom software as well as modified off-the-shelf components for signal-data acquisition , analysis , device control , communication and training aids for the patients .




Blazing a Trail in Home Recording

LAS VEGAS -- Pioneer New Media Technologies is the first optical media vendor to hit the market with a combined CD-RW and DVD-RW unit , putting two types of recordable optical storage into a single unit .
At Comdex this week , Pioneer began showing off the DVR-103 , which supports recording in CD-R , CR-RW , DVD-R and DVD-RW formats , the last of which can be rewritten up to 1,000 times .
write once
CD rewritable
write once
The drive records DVD-Rs at twice the speed of previous products , and also is compatible with all of the CD formats , including CD-ROM and CD-RW .
The DVD-RW has a storage capacity of 4.7 GB , which is the target capacity for the DVD Forum , developer of the DVD specification .
There have been recordable DVD drives on the market , DVD-RAM drives , but they only had a capacity of 2.5 GB .
The company expects that demand for converting home movies to the longer-lasting digital format could make DVD as popular as CD .
" Archiving videotapes will be the killer app for DVD-R , " according to Andy Parsons , senior vice president at Pioneer New Media Technologies .
He expects that people will convert their aging videotape libraries , which are only rated to last 15 years , with DVDs that are rated to last 100 years .
The internal drive will have inputs for both analog and IEEE 1394 Firewire , Parsons said .
The drive will come with video editing software for producing DVD-R discs that are then loaded into DVD players for enjoying through the television .
Parsons said that DVD is quickly becoming entrenched as a consumer electronics standard , and that more than 15 million DVD players will ship this year . "
Computer platforms come and go , but consumer electronics platforms stay around , " Parsons said .
like CDs and videotapes
Pioneer did not announce pricing for the DVR-103 , but said it would be substantially below the $ 5,400 price of its previous generation offering .
Parsons said the drive is expected to be available to OEMs in the first quarter of 2001 , and that the cost of media should drop to $ 10 per disc .
Parsons said the DVR-103 supports copyright protection by hiding the CSS key on the discs , which prevents disks from being unlocked and played .
content scrambling system
The DVR-103 is compliant with version 1.1 of the DVDRW specification , which creates a pre-embossed area on the disk , which protects against " bit-for-bit " copies of encrypted movies .




Sega 's Sooooo Sorry About Sony

Video game marketing has come to this : Nyah nyah nyah !
That 's the message put out by Sega in a postcard sent to the press , analysts and retail stores this week .
The postcard shows a freckled kid of about 7- or 8-years-old , sticking his tongue out at the camera .
The caption reads , " Our deepest condolences to Sony on their PS2 shipping difficulties . "
The message refers to Sony 's PlayStation 2 video game console , which was released last month in the United States with much fanfare .
Due to shortages , though , hardcore gamers have had a frustratingly difficult time getting their hands on PS2s .
So Sega saw a stumbling Sony , and it decided to kick the electronics giant in the chin .
SEGA
SNE
Besides the postcard , Sega 's red-headed taunting kid found a place in Gameweek magazine , and on a billboard truck that was driven around San Francisco 's multimedia gulch .
The truck even made a few swings around Sony 's Metreon , the shopping center that 's home to the world 's only PlayStation store .
" That particular message was targeted at the retail community , " said Joe Culley , Sega 's vice president of marketing . "
It was basically a reminder to them saying , ' We 're here to support you , ' " he said .
Culley went on , getting in another dig at Sony : " Clearly the shortfall from Sony put retailers in a very difficult position , and as good business partners , we wanted to remind them that the Dreamcast was out there . "
Attempts to reach Sony for comment on the Sega ad were unsuccessful , so Wired News was n't able to determine whether the company would be surreptitiously taping Kick Me signs to the backs of Sega execs in retaliation .
Sega 's kid ad is probably a bit understandable , given the tsunami of press that accompanied the PS2 's launch .
Sega , with its " next-generation " Dreamcast system already a year old , had to make sure that people did n't forget it existed .
" So we communicated our message in a very ' Sega-like ' way , " said Culley .
Billy Pidgeon , a gaming analyst at Jupiter Communications , agreed that Sega has always been the kind of company that teases its competition .
" They 've always been thumbing their nose at the competition , " Pidgeon said of Sega , presumably meaning that they 've also been sticking their tongues out . "
They did that with Nintendo , quite effectively -- that 's their modus operandi . "
Sega hopes that when people go to the store looking for a PS2 and do n't find one , they might consider purchasing a Dreamcast instead .




New Pet Robot Will n't Stain the Rug

LAS VEGAS -- The second-generation model of the popular Aibo pet robot was launched on Thursday by Sony , but unlike its predecessor , it will n't pee on the rug .
In an attempt to make the plastic pet less dog-like , Sony removed its bark and leg-cocking action , which was accompanied by the sound of running water .
" It 's not a cat or a dog , " said Jon Piazza , Sony PR manager . "
It 's a robot companion . "
" Personally , I think it looks like a little terrier , " he added . "
But people can pretty much decide what they want it to be . "
The new Aibo is a big draw at Comdex .
The plastic pet is attracting crowds so large , people at the back are complaining they can n't even see what 's on display .
The booth handed out more than 8,000 brochures on the first day and the Aibo website is having problems handling all the traffic , Piazza said .
Piazza said Sony hopes the new Aibo will be even better than its predecessor at eliciting strong bonds of attachment from its owner .
" It 's amazing , " he said . "
People refer to it as a living , organic creature .
They know it 's not but if you play with it all the time , it has that effect .
They call it by name and take it to the store or on vacation .
" With this one , it 's going to be even stronger because it has voice recognition . "
The new Aibo responds to 50 voice commands like " sit , " " stand " and " dance . "
It can also be conditioned .
Behaviors like playing and dancing can be positively reinforced with gentle strokes to touch sensors located on the Aibo 's head , back and under its chin .
But sharp taps to the touch sensors act as negative reinforcement and will eventually eliminate the behavior altogether .




3D Projection Without the Glasses

LAS VEGAS -- Perhaps the most exciting technology at Comdex this year was a 3D display that projected volumetric images into thin air , prompting show goers to gasp , burst out laughing and run around the booth in excitement .
At the back of one of the exhibit halls , Dimensional Media set up a booth full of 3D displays that projected images -- of objects such as cell phones or soda cans -- into space in front of the viewer .
The effect was not unlike the famous special effect in Star Wars where R2D2 projects a holographic display .
But unlike R2D2 's grainy video , the images at Comdex were often as vivid and concrete as real objects .
And unlike most other 3D displays , Dimensional Media 's does not require special glasses or any kind of headgear .
" It 's magic , " said Anna Zharkova , an event manager from Russia , who was running around the booth like a headless chicken . "
I can not believe it .
It 's just magic . "
Her colleague , Natasya Savina , said : " I think it is incredible .
I never thought at this exhibition to see something so wondrous .
Everything is quite common .
But this is so new , so amazing .
Next year , I would like to use it for myself so that my image can be at the booth , and I can be somewhere else . "
Dimensional Media , which is based in New York , originally developed the technology for the military with funding from Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency .
DARPA
The military wanted a true , volumetric 3D display that did n't require special glasses or complex electronics .
The simplest version of the technology is based on a system of mirrors and lenses .
The object whose image is being projected sits inside a pedestal , which projects the object 's light into space above the pedestal , where the image is reformed .
The effect is as if the object itself is hovering above the pedestal 's surface .
The company also demonstrated video versions of the technology , which projected video images in 3D .
The Russians played with a 3D teller-machine whose buttons floated in space in front off the viewer .
To activate the system 's virtual " buttons , " the viewer simply pointed a finger at the image of the button .
The system uses a grid of infrared lights -- similar to systems in stores that beep when a shopper enters -- to calculate the position of the viewer 's finger .
Dimensional Media said its images are already starting to turn up in advertising displays at shopping malls and airports around the world , and they should become quite common this year as more and more are installed .
" We are really starting to sell these systems , " said CEO Daniel Pfeffer .
Dimensional Media said the company will start testing the first volumetric 3D computer monitor early next year , which it hopes to sell to medical providers , the military and CAD/CAM companies .
Pfeffer said for the first time , the display will give viewers full " look around " of a projected image .
" I could project the image of your face and have full look-around , like you were really in front of me , " he said .
As an example of its use , Pfeffer said the monitor could project X-Ray or NMR data in 3D , creating a precise image of the inside of a patient 's skull and the location of , say , a tumor .
The display could then overlay another image onto the patient 's actual skull , showing the surgeon the exact place to cut .
" It 's the most unbelievable technology , " he said .




France 's First Gene-Screened Baby

PARIS -- A French woman has given birth to the nation 's first genetically screened baby after she lost two other children to a deadly genetic disease , doctors said Wednesday .
The baby boy , known only by his first name , Valentin , was born early Monday at the Antoine-Beclere Hospital in Clamart , outside Paris , doctors said .
His parents ' identities were not disclosed .
Doctors said the baby 's condition was " satisfactory , " though he was born six weeks before term .
The couple , who have no trouble conceiving naturally , underwent in vitro fertilization and a process called pre-implantation genetic diagnosis , or PGD , in an effort to ensure their baby did not have the gene defect .
Doctors would not specify which genetic disease the couple were trying to avoid , other than saying it destroys the liver .
In the United States , the same process resulted in the birth this summer of Adam Nash , in the hopes that his umbilical cord blood could save his older sister , Molly , who was suffering from Fanconi anemia , a rare genetic disease .
The French medical team studied the technique used at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in Chicago , where baby Adam was conceived .
Embryonic research is currently against the law in France , and doctors plan to ask lawmakers to repeal the ban on such research , the medical team said at a news conference .
" The couple had no problem having children , " Dr. Arnold Munnich , the genetic pediatrician who heads the Genetics Department at the Necker-Enfants Malades Hospital , said on France-Info radio . "
French
Their problem was having healthy children . "
Besides losing two young children , the baby 's mother also underwent an abortion after the fetus she was carrying was discovered to harbor the gene , doctors said .
Munnich said the principles and techniques were the same as in traditional prenatal diagnostic testing , " except that here we intervene at the moment of fertilization , in the earliest stages of the embryo 's development , before its implantation in the uterus . "
Munnich said he did not believe the procedure would lead to eugenics , the science of selecting genes to improve the human species .
Munnich worked closely on the operation with France 's leading obstetrician , Dr. Rene Frydman , who was responsible for the country 's first test-tube baby .
Jean-Francois Mattei , president of the centrist Liberal Democracy Party and member of the National Assembly 's Ethics Committee , called the birth a success .
The technique " allows families that have undergone terrible suffering to have the children they desire in safe conditions , " he said .
Twenty-one couples in France have already expressed interest in using the technique , and five women are currently carrying fetuses conceived using the screening technique , doctors said .




Jeepers Creepers , MP Peepers ?

WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Army is testing a wearable computer that links military police to one another and allows them to share streaming video feeds .
Dubbed " Digital MP , " the system has soldiers wear special eyeglass frames and electronic gloves , according to a report this week from the Army News Service .
Digital MP , developed by ViA Inc. , MicroOptical and Honeywell , uses a voice-activated interface and is designed for reconnaissance and anti-terrorism missions .
Clinton administration exodus : Here 's another politico who 's fled , albeit a little late , to the dot-com world : Mike McCurry .
This week , President Clinton 's former top spinmeister became the CEO of Grassroots.com , a political activism site .
" There is one thing clear from this remarkable election year , " McCurry said in a statement . "
There will be abundant need for tools that help organizations and citizens make their case to the new administration and the new Congress .
Grassroots.com is poised to bring the $ 35 billion political marketplace , the online products and services , advocates need for success . "
Dirty pixels : A criminal law banning morphed child porn is constitutional , a federal appeals court recently decided .
The 3-0 ruling from the U.S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals largely agrees with similar decisions from the 6th Circuit and the 11th Circuit , but it breaks with the 9th Circuit , where a divided panel said the Child Pornography Protection Act of 1996 was overly broad and vague .
This split sets the stage for a review by the Supreme Court .
Watch , out Photoshop users : The law makes it a felony to create or possess a JPEG or any other graphical image that " appears to be of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct . "
Election humor : As in any political crisis , the real winners in Florida 's perpetual election have been humorists .
This week saw a hilarious parody of an Al Gore vs. George W. Bush discussion -- as if they were playing a Dungeons and Dragons role-playing game .
The Great Britain Guardian newspaper got in a nice jab with an " electile dysfunction " cartoon , while the presidency itself went up for sale on eBay .
And , of course , here 's another graphical parody ballot .
Media bash : If you secretly suspected the Washington media was shallow and crass , here 's a new report from the venerable Brookings Institution that seems to confirm it .
The report is a transition guide for Beltway neophytes who are thinking of taking high office in a Bush or Gore administration .
About 1,000 posts require Senate confirmation , which can be a nerve-wracking process for someone not used to the way that the nation 's capital city treats its officials .
The authors do n't paint a very flattering picture of reporters : " Journalists do want to gain your confidence , and it 's not because they want to be your friends . "
Replies Will Rodger of USAToday.com : " No , reporters generally do n't want to be friends to their sources .
Most of us want to air all sides of a story and do it ethically . "




Carnivore Can Read Everything

WASHINGTON -- The FBI 's controversial e-mail surveillance tool , known as Carnivore , can retrieve all communications that go through an Internet service , far more than FBI officials have said it does , according to a Bureau documents and a recent FBI test .
An FBI official involved with the test stressed Friday that although Carnivore has the ability to grab a large quantity of e-mails and Web communications , current law and specific court orders restrict its use .
Nevertheless , privacy experts said they are worried about the breadth of Carnivore 's capability and questioned why the FBI even conducted such a test in June if it intends to use the tool only for narrow purposes .
" That really contradicts the explanation that the FBI has provided as to the purpose of the system and how it works , " said David Sobel , general counsel for the Washington-based Electronic Privacy Information Center . "
We 've been led to believe that the purpose of Carnivore is to filter and pinpoint the particular communications that the FBI is authorized to obtain .
If that 's true , then why are they testing the system 's ability to store and archive everything ? "
Sobel 's group recently obtained the FBI documents that provide the test results , as part of litigation it brought under the Freedom of Information Act .
In the lab report , FBI officials said Carnivore " could reliably capture and archive all unfiltered traffic to the internal hard drive " and could save the information on removable high-capacity disks as well .
Marcus Thomas , head of the FBI 's cybertechnology section , said in an interview with The Associated Press that the test was only done to check Carnivore 's " breaking point . "
He said the tool would not be used to capture broad swaths of Internet communications in a real-world situation .
Thomas was one of the FBI agents who approved the lab report .
" Certainly , in operation , you could set the filters up to do nothing , " Thomas said . "
But our procedures are very detailed , we 'll only do what we 're allowed to in a court order . "
The difference of opinion is the latest in what has become a debate between Carnivore 's capabilities and its actual use .
While law enforcement officials have admitted that Carnivore can capture much more than e-mail , including Internet chats and Web browsing , FBI officials insist it is only used to copy e-mails to a criminal suspect or from a criminal suspect in accordance with a court order .
Opponents say the " black box " nature of the system keeps the public from knowing what it can really do , and its installation at an Internet provider may cause network problems .
The Electronic Privacy Information Center started receiving batches of Carnivore-related material in October , after a court ordered the FBI to release the information .
EPIC representatives said they have received about 550 pages so far , and expect to get only about 30 percent of the 3,000 documents related to Carnivore .
Most of the released documents have large portions blacked out .
FBI officials say Carnivore has been used in about 25 cases , most of them involving national security .
Congress considered several measures this year to rein in Carnivore , but none survived .
Lawmakers have said that they may consider measures again next year .
An independent review of Carnivore was ordered by Attorney General Janet Reno .
That report is due to be received by the Justice Department on Friday , Justice spokeswoman Chris Watney said .
Watney said the report is expected to be released to the public early next week , after it is edited to eliminate references to Carnivore 's internal blueprints and other sensitive material .




Creating a Digital Music Empire

LAS VEGAS -- To Sim Wong Hoo , the mission is simple -- build a platform that will become the standard for delivering digital music to consumers around the world .
At Comdex , the founder and CEO of Creative Technology described how his company 's recently released Nomad Jukebox player is the proper foundation for doing just that .
Mr. Sim , as he is known at Creative , believes the portable music player will be " 10 times more successful " than his company 's Sound Blaster line of sound cards .
Sound Blasters created , and now control , the market for PC audio .
Creative has sold more than 120 million Sound Blasters during the past 10 years .
CREAF
But Sim sees the Nomads as not limited to PC audio enthusiasts -- instead wandering far beyond computers to become a consumer electronics phenomenon .
He expects to ship more that 200,000 of the $ 500 Jukebox players during the first year of distribution , but expects that will be a fraction of the potential demand .
Sim is investing heavily in content providers and infrastructure companies while simultaneously pursuing relationships with record labels to bolster future Nomad Jukebox products .
With 6 GB of storage , the Nomad Jukebox , which launched in September , can hold the equivalent of 150 CDs ' worth of music in MP3 , Windows Media Audio or .WAV format .
Sim said this makes it appropriate for becoming a home music server that happens to be portable .
Creative first entered the crowded MP3 player space with the Nomad , Nomad II , and Nomad II MG players , which offer up to 64 MB of storage , but the company has much bigger plans for the Nomad Jukebox .
A plethora of consumer electronics vendors , including Sony , RCA , Samsung , and Diamond Multimedia , offer portable MP3 players that store music in RAM .
But Creative has first-mover advantage with its hard-disk-based Jukebox that provides about 100 times the capacity .
Sim expects the capacity on the Nomad Jukebox to double in the next six months , and is developing partnerships . "
We want the Jukebox to be the legal version of Napster " for distributing digital audio , Sim said .
Forrester Research analyst Jeremy Schwartz believes Creative is taking the right approach to become a mass-market device . " a great little device , " and is a good product to build a new business on , Schwartz said .
The Nomad Jukebox is
He believes the high price may limit the market penetration initially , but expects it to become less expensive over time .
Sim said acquiring a wide variety of content is essential to turning the Nomad Jukebox into an indispensable music repository .
In October , Creative released Savantium software and a complementary website for downloading news , sports , stock and weather information from publishers including Rolling Stone and The New York Times .
Creative is looking to release Jukebox models that come preloaded with dozens of albums from a particular genre of music , such as jazz or classical , Sim said .
The songs can be deleted , or purchased and unlocked after obtaining a key from the Internet .
Creative is also aggressively pursuing relationships with online music sellers and with major and independent labels to develop subscription models for delivering music to Nomad devices .




It 's New Media , But Is It Art ?

Artists have long toyed with the latest technologies to create pioneering works of art .
In that tradition , Tom Kemp has created what he calls the first " serious " contemporary artwork produced entirely on the handheld Palm computer .
Putting aside the merits of Kemp 's specific work , his claim begs a larger question : Is artwork " serious " simply because it has been done using a previously unexplored medium ?
" While such pioneering work is often interesting , the question is whether novelty alone is a useful criterion for art or merely a great excuse for talking about technology , " said Peter Lunenfeld , who teaches in the graduate program in Communication and New Media Design at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena , California .
Not everyone thinks that novelty is enough .
" What difference does it make if it has been produced with a Palm of not ? " said Benjamin Weil , curator of media arts at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art . "
I think that deeming it the ' first serious work of art ' is somewhat preposterous .
" I am really suspicious of techno-driven and techno-celebrating projects that desperately seek to be called art .
Art is about ideas , not about technology .
I would therefore suggest we stop being techno-fetishist , and getting all excited at the gizmo-ization of a practice that is obviously more than just gee whiz ! "
While other artists have created palmtop computer artworks , Kemp insists that his piece , Analysis is different .
" There are a lot of paintings .
done on the Palm
Some have been immaculately crafted , " Kemp said . "
But they are exhibitions of skill , not necessarily exhibitions of art . "
Analysis differs from other works of palmtop art in part because of the enormous energy it took to create the work , Kemp said .
Using the TealPaint application on a Palm Vx , Kemp produced 1,000 small paintings , each the size of the Palm 's screen , about two-and-a-half inches square .
Each painting captures small movements made with an electronic paintbrush to create unique characters .
Kemp assembled the small paintings in Photoshop on a Macintosh computer , printed them out on canvas and placed them in a huge grid , 4 feet high and 17 feet wide .




From Russia , With Drugs

A new biotech company 's drug pipeline is being fed directly from the former Soviet Union .
Feeding the drug pipeline from Russia gives Novelos , of Newton , Massachusetts , a significant leg up , said Harry Palmin , the company 's president .
Its business model is based on waiting for drugs to first get approval in Russia , and then to develop and commercialize them in the United States and the rest of the world .
" When we bring a drug into development and commercialization we already know how the drug performs in patients , which is invaluable , " Palmin said .
The concept is not lost on other , bigger pharmaceutical companies .
Several have drugs in trials in Russia where the drug approval process is cheaper and a bit more liberal .
In the United States , the Food and Drug Administration approves drugs for very specific indications , such as " non-small cell lung cancer . "
In Russia , they 're approved more broadly , i.e. , for " cancer . "
It takes about 10 years and a half a billion dollars to bring one drug to market in the United States .
But in Russia , according to a report in the business-to-business newsletter Concise Consumer , it takes only three to seven years and up to $ 7 million .
Novelos , however , enjoys an advantage that few if any pharmaceutical companies have -- its unique relationship to its counterpart in Russia , a biotech called BAM Medical Ltd.
Since 1998 , Palmin 's father has been a director at BAM , which performs all of the research and development for both BAM and Novelos drug development .
" It 's all in the family , " the younger Palmin said .
Another scientist at BAM is the father of the Novelos ' director of clinical and regulatory affairs .
Another reason Russia is attractive to drug prospectors is the population 's eagerness to participate in clinical trials .
Finding subjects for studies is a major challenge for researchers in the United States , where the population tends to be wary of being treated as " guinea pigs . "




Archimedes Gets a Makeover

A new study of an ancient manuscript means that 2,300 years after Archimedes ran naked through the streets of Syracuse shouting " Eureka ! " scientists will finally discover exactly what the Greek mathematician was bragging about .
It 's not that scholars do n't have a clue about his theories written in the two treatises On Floating Bodies and Method of Mechanical Theorems .
After all , much of modern science is based on materials in those aged manuscripts .
But thanks to the latest imaging technology being used on this third century B.C. manuscript , scientists will finally be able to read and study the whole thing .
The manuscript outlines Archimedes ' explanation of the pulley , the fulcrum and the lever , and the physics of flotation -- why boats float -- the discovery that compelled his famous , gleeful , and immodest streak during which he exclaimed in Greek , " I found it . "
" It 's the only original Archimedes manuscript .
It 's the Eureka manuscript -- Archimedes ' brain in a box , " said William Noel , curator of the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore . "
It 's the most reliable example of a 2,000-year-old dead genius .
How much more important can you get than this ?
It 's absolutely seminal -- it cuts right to the heart of his persona . "
Deciphering the 174-page manuscript , however , is not an easy task .
Not only is the parchment in very poor condition , but the original text has been erased and the parchment recycled as a prayer book .
Scientists believe a scribe copied the manuscript in the 10th century from Archimedes ' original Greek scrolls .
Some 200 years later , the text was erased by a monk who re-used the parchment , creating a twice-used parchment book known as a " palimpsest , " a Greek word meaning " scraped again . "
" If it had survived complete and been known in the Italian Renaissance , the history of mathematics would almost certainly have been different , " wrote Nigel Wilson of the University of Oxford and a member of the advisory group responsible for the conservation and publication of the Archimedes manuscript , in an e-mail interview .
Once the restoration is complete , " we shall have a more intelligible text of the most important essay that Archimedes wrote , " Wilson said .
The original recycling process was painstaking .
The original manuscript was taken apart and the original ink scraped off .
The monk also cut the sheets in half , rotated the pages by 90 degrees and then reassembled the book .
This type of recycling was very common in the 12th century .
Parchment , made from animal skin , was often in short supply and very expensive .
Also , religious tracts -- containing exorcisms and prayers for the sick -- were all the rage , while advanced treatises on mathematical theories did n't exactly make the Top 40 charts .
A Danish scholar , Johan Ludvig Heiberg , discovered the Archimedes palimpsest in 1907 , and was able to make out parts of the text by using regular sunlight and a magnifying glass .
Heiberg published his research , and his text became the standard edition that school children sweat over today .
" Heiberg focused on recovering simply the text .
We are bound to gain a lot of insight from looking at the mathematical diagrams that Heiberg neglected .
...
There is no question that the text is going to be changed dramatically , " said Reviel Netz , professor of ancient science at Stanford University .
The palimpsest disappeared between the time that Heiberg studied it and the 1930s , when it resurfaced in a private collection in Paris .
On Oct. 29 , 1998 , it was sold at Christie 's Auction House in New York for $ 2 million .
The anonymous owner of the manuscript has entrusted the document to the care of the Walters for conservation and study .
To reconstruct the original document , Walters set up a competition to search for a team of scientists able to decipher the work . "
We had lots of applications for the job globally and we whittled it down to two , " Noel said .
The two winners were the Rochester Institute of Technology and Johns Hopkins University .
RIT
Both teams were given five pages of the palimpsest to work from . "
The five pages had a variety of problems -- faint text , mold -- one had a forgery on it , " Noel said .
The manuscript was so badly damaged that traditional methods of imaging , using visible or ultraviolet light , proved ineffective .
" It 's in terrible condition .
It 's had an awful lot of damage , " Noel said . "
It 's suffered from mold .
It 's animal skin , so it 's very durable , but mold can damage it .
It 's also been in a fire ; the edges are charred . "
The teams had the added problem of having to decipher the text without damaging the very frail parchment . "
We can n't remove material from the palimpsest , " said Johns Hopkins ' Bill Christens-Barry . "
It 's very fragile , so we can n't go into it or get in contact with it , so we have to use benign techniques . "




Behold the New Pentium 4

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Intel 's new Pentium 4 desktop PC chip promises snappy speeds and delivers enhanced multimedia performance , but it may not dazzle users of typical office applications .
The P4 , released Monday , features what Intel said is the first completely new desktop processor design since its 1995 release of the Pentium Pro processor .
Intel said the P4 chip has been redesigned to speed the delivery and creation of Internet-based multimedia content , with better graphics , voice and video performance .
The chip supplies swift rendering of multimedia content in part by anticipating what chunks of data will be needed next by the user , a task that it performs well when handling data like streaming video or large graphics files .
But , according to some experts , the P4 is n't very intuitive when it comes to standard office applications .
" People who do a lot of work online -- plus graphics artists and game players -- will like the P4 .
People who use word processing applications and spread sheets will n't see much of a difference in performance , " said John McCormick , CEO of Mtech , a corporate computer consulting firm .
McCormick , who bills himself as a consumer advocate for businesses , said that the P4 chip has some interesting new features , but he is advising clients who work outside of Web-based industries to wait before they buy .
Intel is offering two Pentium 4 chips running at 1.4 GHz and 1.5 GHz .
McCormick said both P4 chips are running office applications at only about " 10 percent " faster than the 1 GHz Pentium III , and so he sees no burning need for most of his clients to upgrade .
" Intel is using what they 've dubbed ' Hyper Pipelined Technology ' which allows the P4 chip to handle more processes at one time , " McCormick said . "
HPT
And its ' Advanced Dynamic Execution ' feature allows it to juggle more data .
ADE
So essentially what you have is a CPU with more multitasking capability , which &ndash; - via the ADE feature -- also attempts to anticipate what you might do next . "
But McCormick says he has n't been impressed with the P4 's ability to foresee the needs of office application users .
" The P4 is excellent at retrieving graphical information before the user asks for it , but it 's so-so with figuring out where you 're going next in a word document or spreadsheet , " he said . "
So most people do n't get much of a speed increase in their daily rounds of chores .
Frankly , from what I 'm seeing , I 'll tell my corporate clients to wait on the 1.13 GHz Pentium III , due early next year , which I really believe will produce faster speeds in basic applications than the Pentium 4 , " said McCormick .
The lack of speed increase puzzled some experts , who say the P4 's snappier system BUS , which now runs at 400 MHz -- compared to 133 MHz in top end PIII chips -- should have produced a greater speed increase across the board .
" A system bus moves information to and from the memory to the CPU and back again , " explained Andrew Minken , a technician at TekServices . "
So in theory , a faster bus should absolutely give you better overall performance .
And with the higher clock speed of the P4 CPU , we should be looking at a smoking configuration .
But I did n't see a huge jump in the speed of standard office-type applications .
I think that the ADE feature is n't as intuitive as Intel is saying it is . "
Where the P4 does shine , according to both Minken and McCormick , is in rendering multimedia content .
" The P4 incorporates 144 new graphics and multimedia instructions - &ndash; something that Intel calls ' Streaming SIMD Extensions 2' -- which absolutely speeds up image rendering and editing , video feeds , and anything with sound and motion .
SSE2
It 's a stunning chip for graphics use and may sway some of our Mac-addict art directors over to the darkside , " said Terry Ponti , a computer graphics instructor at the School of Visual Arts .
But Ponti pointed out that the software is n't yet available that will allow users to get the full benefit from the P4 architecture . "
Once we have applications in place that take advantage of these new multimedia instructions , only then will you see real performance improvements , " Ponti said . "
There 's a definite increase now in graphics apps , but the P4 will n't really come into its own until the applications support it . "
Intel has announced that major companies like Macromedia and Microsoft will add SSE2 support to their programs .
Microsoft , according to Intel , will incorporate SSE2 into its DirectX 8 driver .
The company also expects to deliver an even snappier P4 chip running at 2 GHz in the third quarter of 2001 .
Dell and IBM have both released PCs with the new chip .
Dell 's Dimension 8100 desktop includes a 1.4 GHz Pentium 4 , 128 MB of RDRAM , a 40 GB hard drive , and a 19-inch monitor .
$ 1,999
IBM 's NetVista A60i PC also sports a 1.4 GHz Pentium 4 , priced at $ 2,199 , sans monitor .
McCormick said he did n't want to give the impression that he was " slamming " the P4 .
" I think it has some interesting options and a lot of potential .
But people tend to judge the value of a CPU by its stated clock speed and that 's a mistake , " McCormick said . "
What Intel is offering with the P4 , to my mind , is a chip targeted towards people who do very specific types of work . "
Minken also felt that the P4 chip is an excellent choice if you " will be working in the areas that Intel clearly states that the chip is designed to impact &ndash; graphics and multimedia .
In its current incarnation , the P4 will n't do much for the standard cube-dweller .
" This is not a slap across Intel 's face - &ndash; they have been very clear about this chip 's intent and potentials , " Minken added . "
People simply need to stop making buying decisions based solely on techno lust and how fast something might be able to go given the perfect conditions , and start looking at how and for what they use their machines . "




Pagers Are Out ; Phones Are Chic

An Oakland , California-based wireless operator is about to make cell phones as hip and chic as Britney Spears .
Talking Drum , which powers a wireless communications network based on purchased airtime from telephone service carriers , has opened a store in Sacramento that sells cellular phones , accessories and services specifically for teenagers .
Sacramento teens can purchase a phone for as much as $ 150 that has features such as a voice-activated address book called " Peeps , " and another called " Blast , " which offers the ability to hold a conference call with up to five people .
depending on the service plan chosen
" It 's an instant party line , " said Talking Drum president and CEO Vinnie Longobardo .
Longobardo pointed out the ubiquity of cell phones among Scandinavian and Japanese teens , and believes these successful sales could transfer to America .
" If you look at the pager culture , pagers are well penetrated in the teen market , " he said . "
They are not cool anymore because everyone has one .
But cell phones are cool because not everyone has it . "
Bluetooth to Ship : A slew of companies have announced they will begin shipping products with the over-hyped Bluetooth wireless technology .
Bluetooth is a short radio link that allows handheld devices within 33 feet to interact with each other .
Motorola has already shipped Bluetooth-enabled notebook PC cards and universal serial bus adapters to be bundled into IBM and Toshiba laptops .
MOT
Early next year , 3Com plans to ship its first three Bluetooth products , which include hardware for desks and conference rooms , notebook PC cards and USB adapters so computers can support Bluetooth .
COMS
Intel said it plans to ship similar products in the first half of next year .
INTC
Have a mobile Xmas : MP3 lovers can now store , organize and manage their music collections online with Sprint PCS My Music .
The burgeoning wireless giant is also offering anyone who purchases a Samsung Uproar Phone a free one-year subscription to its music service .
Mobile phone users can sign up at kiosks in New York City 's Palisades Center to receive coupons from their favorite stores .
...
Wal-Mart Stores this month will begin selling Handspring Visors , accessories and select Springboard expansion modules .
...
The Palm Mobile Internet Kit now includes a Web clipping by Snaz that allows users to make purchases at stores such as Bol , Great Universal Stores , Streets Online , BeU , and Firebox .
Dialing around : The Swiss auction for four third-generation or UMTS licenses was postponed after two of the five remaining bidders announced they are to merge .
universal mobile telecommunications system
...
NTT DoCoMo reportedly wants a stake in Taiwan 's number-four mobile carrier KG Telecom .
...
Lucent Technologies and wireless communications company Clearnet are running a trial in Canada that gives WAP users real-time , location-based information such as the nearest ATM machine and the ability to surf the Net , shop , and buy and sell stock .
LU
CLNT
wireless application protocol
Enfour , a software developer and the Japanese distributor for Psion Computers , is working with Honda Motor so that its car navigation portal can support most personal digital assistants and desktop platforms .
...
Japan 's Matsushita Electric Industrial , whose brands include Panasonic and Technics , next month begins selling mobile phones that access the Internet and store up to 4,000 e-mail messages .
Users with PDAs that have AvantGo 's software can get a few chuckles from The Onion .




A Star Wars Defense to Hackers

SEATTLE -- Basing their strategy on a grad student 's work , a new Internet security company has begun beta-testing its solution to Denial-of-Service attacks on the high-speed experimental Internet2 backbone .
Asta Networks was formed earlier this year to develop and market the security system by Asta chief scientist Stefan Savage , a doctoral candidate at the University of Washington , and members of the school 's Computer Science and Engineering faculty .
Their approach to the Denial-of-Service problem is based on his doctoral thesis .
Denial-of-Service attacks -- basically the high-tech version of tying up a phone line by calling and not hanging up -- have become an increasing problem across the Internet .
The case of a 15-year-old Canadian hacker calling himself MafiaBoy , who is charged with mounting the attacks that brought down Amazon.com , Yahoo and eBay last February , shows just how vulnerable the wired universe is to this kind of vandalism .
According to the Yankee Group , those incidents cost an estimated $ 1.2 billion in lost revenues , not to mention the lost business resulting from people 's security and reliability concerns .
" The barriers for launching these attacks are falling even as the sophistication of these attacks are rising , " said David Weatherall , Asta 's Chief Technology Officer . "
You hear about script- kiddies -- teenagers who have been able launch these programs because they simply download and run them . "
He added that the number of these attacks has continued to grow , although most instances are not large enough to make the news .
In some cases , Weatherall said , the companies have chosen not to highlight their vulnerability publicly .
Weatherall said Asta 's tactic is to block the attack as packets stream into the Internet Service Provider 's servers to help the ISP network managers detect , diagnose and resolve attacks before they can do their damage .
Frank Prince , an analyst with Forrester Research familiar with network security issues , said hackers force companies to try to stop doing something they need to do , whether it is using the e-mail systems or receiving large numbers of calls through their server networks .
He described the attacks as being like someone shining a light in a person 's eyes -- either they have to close their eyes , making it impossible to see , or their eyes are flooded with a blinding light .
He said Asta 's approach , which sets up barriers to the DoS attacks at the ISP or further upline on the Internet backbone is like holding a hand out at arm 's length to block out some of the light while still being able to see .
Both Asta and their main competitor , Massachusetts-based Mazu Networks have been doing their alpha-testing in cooperation with Exodus Communications , a major service provider that recently expanded their operations into the Seattle area .
Jeff Wilson , a spokesman for Asta Networks , said the company is using the Internet 2 for its beta-test " to have a controlled environment with the same level of traffic that one might experience on the Internet . "
Internet2 is a high-speed next-generation Internet backbone being developed by a consortium of universities , working with government agencies and industry leaders such as IBM , C-SPAN , AT&T , Boeing , Phantom Works , Hitachi , and Global Crossing .
More than 180 public and private institutions including the California State University system , Carnegie Mellon , MIT and Florida A&M currently use the network to communicate between researchers who need to transfer huge quantities of data .
At the same time , they are experimenting with new technologies to make the Internet less fragile and less prone to traffic jams , and to enable interactive communications not possible on today 's Internet .
" Our focus is not on the sources of attacks themselves , which are often only stepping stones to the ultimate hacker .
Instead , our focus is on protecting the websites and keeping them up , " said Weatherall . "
Our key advantage is being distributed in the network .
This is the only way you can really handle a large flood of the kind that took down Yahoo . "
He predicted that Asta would be marketing a final commercial version of the software to ISPs by the spring of 2001 .
Forrester 's Prince cautioned that the industry is likely to see the same kind of co-evolution of DoS shields and new ways around them that characterize the anti-virus response to intrusive attacks .
" We know that anti-virus products ultimately do n't make you safe , they just make you more secure , " said Prince . "
This does n't solve Denial-of-Service , it just slows it down , and it never will solve the problem unless they have found a very unique solution .
" That does n't make it bad , either .
Just because you do n't have the best brakes in the world does n't mean that you do n't want any . "




Report : Carnivore Works Just Fine

WASHINGTON -- The Chicago law school dean who reviewed the FBI 's controversial e-mail surveillance tool said Monday his report concludes it works the way the bureau described and generally does n't " overcollect " evidence as feared by privacy advocates .
On the eve of the Justice Department 's release of his review findings , Henry H. Perritt Jr. , dean of the Illinois Institute of Technology 's Chicago-Kent College of Law , said the report contains recommended improvements to the Carnivore system both for efficiency and privacy that likely will n't be made public Tuesday .
" I think that it 's fair to say that it does pretty much what the FBI says it did .
For the most part , it does not overcollect .
There 's certain recommendations as to how it could be improved , " he said in an interview with The Associated Press .
Perritt declined to list the recommendations or how Carnivore sometimes overcollected .
Privacy advocates were alarmed by an FBI lab report last week stating that Carnivore " could reliably capture and archive all unfiltered traffic to the internal hard drive . "
The FBI said that the lab report was the result of a test to determine Carnivore 's " breaking point , " and that laws and court orders restricted Carnivore from being used so broadly .
Privacy advocates , however , said the test shows that Carnivore is more powerful than the FBI has stated .
Perritt said the FBI was " completely open and cooperative " during the review .
Justice spokeswoman Chris Watney said Monday that the Carnivore report was received last week , and will be made available to the public Tuesday .
The intervening days , she said , were needed to black out parts of the report that mention Carnivore 's internal blueprints and other sensitive information .
The recommendations probably will be held back as well , Perritt said .
Carnivore was designed by the FBI to collect e-mail going to or from a suspect , in cases where a suspect may be using electronic communications .
Privacy experts have worried about the breadth of Carnivore 's capability and its " black box " nature .
Shortly after IIT was chosen to perform the review , ordered by Attorney General Janet Reno , critics said the review would not be independent because the reviewers were government insiders .
" This important issue deserves a truly independent review , not a whitewash , " House Majority Leader Dick Armey , R-Texas , a longtime Carnivore opponent , said in October .
Perritt advised President Clinton 's transition team on information policy and performing other tasks for the Clinton administration .
He also advised previous Republican administrations .
Associate Dean Harold J. Krent , another member of the team , worked at the Justice Department in the 1980s , and several team members have current or former security clearances from the Defense Department , Treasury Department or the National Security Agency .
Perritt repeatedly affirmed that he was completely independent , and that his reputation would be damaged if he was anything but impartial .
Most of the nation 's elite academic computer departments including the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Purdue University and the San Diego Supercomputer Center either declined to review Carnivore or withdrew their applications after objecting to the requirements the Justice Department placed on the review .
The bureau says Carnivore has been used about 25 times , mostly involving national security .




When Dot-Coms Are But a Vestige

Ben Franklin , who coined the oft-quoted aphorism " fish and visitors stink after three days , " was a couple of centuries too early for the Internet .
Had he been around in 2000 , however , he might have added failed dot-coms to the list of perishables .
Such is the impression one might get talking to experts who specialize in unloading assets of defunct Net firms .
While the upswing in dot-com burnouts has provided plenty of business for corporate liquidation outfits , they 're finding that much of the bargain merchandise has a very short shelf life .
" The fact is that technology is perishable .
It 's a lot like buying fruit in a grocery store , " says David Marchick , vice president of strategic development for bid4assets.com , an auction site that sells goods leftover from bankruptcies , government seizures and other financial mishaps .
Many of the key assets of dot-com companies , from websites to proprietary software to computer equipment , he notes , are goods that depreciate quite rapidly .
The need for speedy closure has been a factor in the past half-year , when the company orchestrated liquidations of close to a dozen Internet companies , including discount retailer Value America , boutique site boo.com , and Civiczone , a website linking citizens and local governments .
Once it gets a new client , the company typically completes a sale within 2 to 4 weeks .
Bill O'Leary , bid4asset 's vice president of marketing , says it sometimes takes a few months for a struggling dot-com to decide to put its assets up on the auction block .
Once it does so , however , the pressure is on to make a deal as quickly as possible .
Michael St. James , a bankruptcy attorney in San Francisco , is well aware of the brisk pace of the dot-com failure business .
In the last month , he has handled cases involving four defunct dot-coms .
In most cases , he said , companies prefer to sell themselves in one piece rather than divide up individual assets .
But with the number of bankrupt Internet companies expanding on a daily basis , experts involved in unloading assets of failed ventures say they 're facing pressure to cut deals almost as soon as a firm closes its doors .
Often , they 're selling assets that had cost millions to build for a relative pittance .
That was the case for boo.com , the high profile U.K.-fashion site that spent millions on marketing before abruptly shutting its doors this spring .
The company sold its domain name , trademarks and a potpourri of other leftovers to fashionmall.com for a few hundred thousand dollars .




Keeping Three Eyes on the Road

JERUSALEM -- While lawmakers argue that communications technology such as mobile phone use is making driving more dangerous , Motorola is betting that a new vehicle camera system can help people avoid accidents .
Motorola last week signed a deal to help MobilEye convert its driving-assistance technology into a vehicle-ready product .
Legislators across the United States have been enacting laws prohibiting driving with a phone in hand in efforts to get drivers to pay more attention to the road .
MobilEye 's technology will enhance a driver 's ability to see surrounding dangers by warning that they are wandering from their lane and by reacting to nearby vehicles .
The technology uses three algorithms to evaluate road safety based on images captured by a camera pointed in front of the vehicle .
The first is road geometry , whereby the system looks ahead approximately 150 meters to see how the road bends .
The system can identify which vehicles are in the same lane and which are in adjacent lanes , even when the road curves considerably .
The second technology is ego-motion , which could be used to help alert drivers if they are tired or driving while impaired .
Ego-motion evaluates the current motion of the vehicle to predict which way the car is likely to move next .
Lane-departure technology identifies lane markings , even in the dark or in bad weather conditions , and warns if the vehicle is veering off course .
The most complex task is obstacle detection , whereby the camera surveys the landscape and picks out which objects are vehicles .
This is done by an on-the-fly comparison of all the objects in the frame of the camera 's vision with a large database that MobilEye has prepared .
" Between one frame to the next we can make a decision .
It is very similar to the human way of thinking , " said MobilEye 's president and CEO , Ziv Aviram .
Obstacle detection can be used to power intelligent adaptive cruise control , for example , where a car 's speed varies automatically according to the motion of the car in front .
The technology , which is currently PC-based , will be moved onto an integrated circuit board and in the future , onto a single chip .
Motorola will integrate the technology with its DigitalDNA car-computing initiative .




Shrinking Streams to Grow Bigger

Thanks to cost-saving technologies , U.S. webcasters might soon be able to create viable businesses that do n't require moving to Canada .
Webcasters have been put on notice by Broadcast.com founder Mark Cuban that to have a successful webcasting business , they should move to Canada .
With unresolved licensing issues and a royalty payment scheme at the doorstep of the U.S. Copyright Office , webcasters have been faced with unwieldy costs for producing content .
Since they largely can n't control the cost of acquiring content , webcasters are turning to new technologies to distribute music and video streams .
Recently launched Octiv provides tools that reduce the bit rates for music and video files before they are encoded , without causing a loss in quality .
The Octimax application sits in front of server software , allowing the pre-encoder to work with both Real Networks and Windows Media files -- or any other streaming format for that matter .
" Our heritage comes from the broadcast world , where processing makes the sound better so that commercials sound as good as the television shows , " said Keith McMillen , president and CEO of Octiv . "
Our claim to fame is better audio at lower bit rates .
We use various digital signal processing which , when tuned and working together , really make the audio jump out of the speakers . "
According to McMillen , the new Octiv technology will be able to reduce bit rates by up to 70 percent .
That could save webcasters between $ 6,000 to $ 12,000 per month in bandwidth charges depending on the number of continuous streams being offered .
The technology also helps to improve the quality of audio and video streams together , allowing for a better consumer experience at the same cost to a webcaster .
" In terms of video streaming , the ability to make the audio sound better at lower bit rates allows video people to take an extra 20 percent of the bit stream , " said McMillen . "
There is no money savings per se , but they are giving better audio and video experience . "
The service also allows webcasters and ISPs to remotely control distribution paths , enabling the increasingly popular ad insertions to be dropped in streams from multiple locations .
The new audio and video codecs coming out are also getting smaller as Microsoft and RealNetworks continue to battle it out for control of the streaming market .
MSFT
RNWK
That , of course , is good news for webcasters .
" The increasing quality of codecs is really reducing the cost of bandwidth , " said Marty Roberts , RealServer product manager . "
And bandwidth is falling faster than Moore 's Law .
Bandwidth costs decrease by half about once every 12 months .
That is good news for broadcasters .
They are getting more bang for their buck , but the bandwidth is getting cheaper . "
" In the audio space , we are talking about formats that run 20 kilobits per second up to 64 kilobits per second .
Many of our stations would broadcast 32 kilobits per second , but with RealAudio8 you can get the same audio experience by a rate reduced by a third , at 20 kilobits per second . "




An Ocean of Renewable Energy

INVERNESS , Scotland -- The world 's first commercial wave power station has been connected to the national grid in Britain .
Wavegen and Queen 's University , Belfast , jointly developed the LIMPET wave system with financial support from the European Union .
Land Installed Marine Powered Energy Transformer
This first site will generate 500 kilowatts of green power on the Scottish island of Islay , which is known for its malt whiskies .
The energy from the plant is sufficient to power 400 homes .
" This is a big day for us , " says managing director Allan Thomson . "
Wavepower has joined the important group of commercially viable , competitive and clean forms of sustainable energy .
This is the launch of a new global market . "
LIMPET offers modular construction and simple operation , and company officials predict its applications will fill a growing need in coastal communities around the world that are trying to replace diesel generation .
QUB installed a small research wave energy station on Islay in 1990 , and its successful operation led to development of the LIMPET project .
" It is very satisfying to find 20 years of collaborative academic research being developed commercially , " says QUB professor Trevor Whittaker . "
LIMPET is an important milestone in the development of this vast ocean resource . "
The LIMPET uses an oscillating water column in an inclined concrete tube that has its opening below the water level .
Wave action causes the water level in the collector to oscillate , and this variation alternately compresses and decompresses the trapped air in the column .
The air flows back and forth through a pair of generating turbines which are driven in the same direction at all times , regardless of the direction of the airflow .
The unit is designed to operate on the shoreline , or can be incorporated within rubble mounds or caisson breakwaters to provide coastal protection schemes as well as power generation .
Key features include low cost power , maximum local content and a 60-year life with minimal maintenance .
The Islay site opens the door for wave power to become a contributor of renewable energy and to help meet obligations under the Kyoto Protocol by reducing emissions of greenhouse gases , explains Thomson .
The station has secured a 15-year power purchase agreement with Public Electricity Suppliers in Scotland .
WAVEGEN is backed by UNOTEC Holding AG of Switzerland , AGIP UK of Italys ENI Group , and the European venture capital company 3i .
The company was established in 1992 by Thomson and professor Alan Wells , inventor of the Wells air turbine .
" To see a new renewable energy source reaching this stage is an important day for all people involved since its beginning , " adds Philippe Schild , a scientific officer with the European Commission . "
LIMPET is there to prove that energy can be extracted commercially from the ocean . "
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Sex Survivor 's Sleazy Demise

It looks like the contestants were n't the only ones who got screwed in Sex Survivor 2000 .
In last week 's triple-X knockoff of the hit TV show , dozens of cameras were supposed to capture 28 porn performers carnally competing for $ 1 million in prize money .
The Internet-only audience members , paying $ 70 a pop for the week-long webcast , were promised streaming video of the event and the right to vote competitors out of the Los Angeles mansion , where the action was taking place .
But that was before the mansion 's cameras stopped working ; before the stars started beating each other up ; before accusations of a rigged show started to fly ; and before the firm hosting Sex Survivor pulled the plug on the event , claiming they were owed over $ 100,000 .
Tony Garcia -- a partner at Arch Entertainment , the Los Angeles Web services shop doing technical work for the event -- alleges that Sex Survivor chieftains EastWest Productions bounced a $ 57,000 check that is part of a larger , $ 100,000 plus bill -- for completed design work , server space and traffic direction .
So after repeated warnings , Arch stopped giving server space to the Sex Survivor site at 5 p.m. EST last Friday .
Disappointed online smut aficionados immediately began flooding the EastWest switchboard and were promised a full refund .
By 1 a.m.
Saturday , Fred Sherman , the executive producer of competitor site Pornstar Survivor , was gleefully calling reporters with news of Sex Survivor 's demise .
Sex Survivor 's problems began long before that , however .
Several of the performers scheduled to appear , including Kendra Jade , Sky and Zoe , were no-shows . "
No cash up front , " Kendra said .
The contestants who were there started getting zany even before the event officially got under way .
" The meeting was a bit long for Raquel Ann More , who had to pee so bad she stood up in the middle of the room , pulled down her pants and peed into a Styrofoam cup .
check-in
performer
The laughter turned to gasps and howls when Danny Sanders grabbed the cup and DRANK it ! " wrote Steve Nelson , a participant who provided Adult Industry News with reports from the Sex Survivor mansion .
sic
But technical problems kept the audience from fully appreciating what was going on .
Fans never saw many of the video feeds from Flynt Digital .
" A day into the event , most of the 44 cameras are not functional , and have not been at all , " complained one subscriber , " Movie Mogul , " on the porn news site Stunning Curves .
At first , these difficulties did n't seem to affect the performers .
Events like the " Fastest Face-Off " and " Blind Man 's Muff " went as scheduled .
And the actors and actresses were connecting for extra-circular activity as well .




Music Marked for Mapping

The Music Genome Project .
That 's the project being built by a team of content creators from the MusicDish website , which is part of the Tag It digital media company .
The site aims to become a one-stop information shop for anyone interested in tracking down digital music websites .
Originally conceived in September of last year , the designers created a searchable directory similar to what Yahoo does for the Web .
With 20 categories , users can search for radio content , resources , downloads , record labels and a plethora of other content .
" There are a lot of sites that have been around for a long time that just are n't out there in the news anymore , " said Sounni de Fontenay , editor of MusicDish . "
We want other sites to have access to all this information out there . "
Of course , it does n't hurt to eventually license that directory out to other news and information sites , which is exactly what Fontenay said the company intends to do .
Eventually , he said the entire suite of content sites Tag It has -- including MusicDish , Mi2N , and the Black Hole Web zines -- could be packaged and used by other sites .
The irony in the whole business is that while the businesses and websites Fontenay and his team continue to map face extinction as the marketplace dries up , the syndication business they are trying to develop could very easily keep them in business .
---
Jar Jar 's PC ? : OK , not exactly , but LucasFilm THX hooked up with Dell to create the first THX-certified PCs for consumer use .
Wicked cool for those aficionados who have been complaining that computer speakers and monitors were providing less-than-stellar quality entertainment to their homes and offices .
With Dolby surround sound now available , along with the Lucas magic touch , digital entertainment listening and viewing stands to change .
" Our objective with this new program is to do for the PC what we did for the movies and home theatre to provide standards to ensure the best possible picture and sound , " LucasFilm THX general manager Monica Dashwood said in a written release .
That 's a big promise to fill , however , with the bandwidth and codec constraints these days .
But , for anyone who remembers the first time they sat down at the movies and heard sound rushing at them from 360 degrees , the promise is worth the leap of faith .
---
The old college try : No matter how dreary the outlook is for businesses being built on digital music , there is always another sucker willing to give it a try .
The latest in the market is a partnership between music promotion company The Jerry Breener Group and Boston 's Marketing Company .
The newly formed company with the best domain name in the sector , bands.com , comes with a twist -- it brings along its business .
None of this digital-music distribution -- instead the entrepreneurs will create online communities with a focus on selling and distributing " major label music and products to the 17- to 25-year-old demographic . "
No major labels have signed up with the company yet , but they have inked a deal with collegemusic.com .
Under the terms of that deal , bands.com has the option to purchase a large stake in the company down the road .
---
Wheels and deals : Version 1.0b3 of Newtella hit the Web this week .
not to be confused with the Gnutella application
The user-maintained file-trading network now offers a more user-friendly interface , bandwidth filters and a cleaner network connection .
...
Digital rights management company Magex unveiled its e-commerce solution for its clearinghouse software ; the app helps facilitate international purchases , which can get hung up at currency transfers between different countries .
...
Audioramp 's suite of music players will get added functionality from media content aggregator Streamsearch .
...
Weezer , the band of Sweater fame will be headlining this year 's Yahoo Outloud tour kicking off in February 2001 .




From Amazon 's Door to Yours

FERNLEY , Nevada -- Although the 786,000-square-foot Amazon.com distribution center sits right against the interstate , it 's the kind of nondescript industrial warehouse you would n't notice unless you were looking for it .
The year-old building , which is one of eight Amazon centers in the United States , will handle about 20 percent of the company 's orders this holiday season .
That alone should make the building stand out , because although many West Coast Amazon orders will flow through Fernley this month , the city itself is pretty much bereft of big-city commerce .
Aside from a few motels and fast-food joints that sit on the center 's periphery , much of the land in Fernley is uncultivated .
The nearest brick-and-mortar bookstore is 23 miles away ; the same distance for a record store , movie theater and The Gap .
Fernley has two bars .
One is Truck Inn , and then there 's another bar called Another Bar .
The promise of e-commerce -- inexpensive items , huge selection -- was predicated on a place like this , far away from civilization , where taxes are low and land is available .
And Amazon -- with its other big centers also scattered around the middle of the country , far from high coastal rents -- has expanded on just this premise .
If we build it , they will buy .
But it takes more than cheap real estate and a snazzy website to become an e-commerce giant , according to Amazon executives .
It also takes automation -- a set-up that can easily scale in a short amount of time from shipping thousands of items to millions -- just what Amazon 's centers will be required to do this holiday season .
And they 'll get it done -- that 's the message that Amazon 's brass wanted to convey to the public when they invited reporters to tour the Fernley center last Friday .
CEO Jeff Bezos said people will choose to shop at Amazon because they 'll know it 's reliable ; and they 'll know it 's reliable , he said , when they hear about the distribution center .
The truth is , Bezos is right .
After a tour of the Fernley center , one comes out a bit dizzy at the sophistication of the center , as if having just walked through something meant to deliver military-grade plutonium instead of Barbie Rock and Roll Radio Houses .
On a tour lead by Jeff Wilke , Amazon 's senior vice president of operations , reporters learned just how technologically complex Amazon 's back-end operations are .
More than that , though , Wilke passed on all the cool Amazon jargon that has accumulated in the six-year history of the company .
Here 's some of it :
DC : Short for " distribution center . "
The first DC was built in Seattle , Washington , but at a mere 93,000 square feet , it is pretty much outdated .
Most of the processes there , Wilke said , require more manual labor .
That 's an artifact of Amazon 's early days , when Bezos used to drive his Chevy Blazer to the post office with packages to ship .
The new DCs , of which Fernley is one , require just a few humans to run the plant -- the number wavers at around a thousand , depending on the season .
Random stowage : One of the reasons Amazon needs so few employees , Wilke said , is because its various processes maximize their efficiency .
For example , books are stored randomly on the company 's shelves : " There 's no Dewey decimal system , no alphabetical order , " Wilke said .
No time is wasted , then , keeping the order straight .
So how does one find a book ?
In this system , a computer assigns an employee to work in one " zone " of shelves .
The employee has a scan gun connected to the central computer which tells the worker what items to pick .
The worker then puts the items in a single " tote , " which is also tracked by the computer .
Tote : These little green plastic containers , each bar-coded and tracked by the central computer , travel around the huge warehouse on intricate conveyer-belt paths .
Each tote is filled with items picked in a single zone , which means that it contains many customers ' items .
A full tote travels to a central location , where a worker scans each item in it and then puts the item on another conveyer belt .
The item then travels on a conveyer belt to a " chute . "
Chute : A chute is simply the meeting point for all the items in a customer order .
An employee stands around waiting at a chute until all the items of an order are dropped into it .
When the chute lights up , the order is ready -- so the employee quickly packs the items in a box , and puts the box on a conveyor belt .
SLAM : Or " Shipping , Labeling and Manifesting " -- the final stop for an order .
Here , the boxes are filled with packing air-pillows and a receipt , and taped up automatically .
Then they 're sent on their way , automatically routed to the carrier selected by the customer .
Orders to be gift-wrapped are routed to another station , where they are manually wrapped .
Levimatic : This living-room-sized machine is simply amazing -- fed a stack of single-order CDs , it automatically packages and labels the discs , and spits out the final product in a matter of seconds .
It can literally do hundreds of discs an hour .
According to Amazon , more than 70 percent of its software engineering has gone into its DCs .
While this may be the un-sexy , boring side of e-commerce , Bezos thinks its just as crucial as the Web end of it .
" Unlike some Web companies , " he said , " we have n't stopped at the website . "




Japan 's Men Date Hot , Sexy Bots

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
At least 30,000 Japanese men are happily practicing their romantic skills by attempting to virtually woo and win a girlfriend via a mobile phone matchmaking service .
Subscribers to the " Love By Mail " service get to choose their girlfriend from a lineup of women that includes a bartender , a flight attendant , an office worker and a teacher .
Once they 've made a selection , they can begin to date the woman via e-mail .
But Love By Mail participants do n't simply exchange giggly e-mails that rapidly escalate to more graphic love letters .
The men must carefully gauge their romantic moves .
Those who promise too much or do n't move fast enough will n't impress their woman , and will get bitter e-mails in response .
Likewise , those who attempt to talk about sports or offer excuses about needing to work too often will also get the cold shoulder from their new love .
Successful seducers are rewarded by increasingly romantic e-mails from their sweetheart , in which she gradually reveals her " most intimate secrets . "
But there is one catch - &ndash; the women the men are corresponding with are nothing more than pre-programmed computer scripts .
That does n't seem to bother Love By Mail 's intrepid subscribers .
" I dated Yumi for awhile , and I have to confess I became very attached to her , " said Wataru Uchida of Tokyo . "
It was hard sometimes to remember that Yumi was n't real .
She would yell at me and ignore me the exact same way as all my other girlfriends have .
" I thought a not-real girlfriend would be more relaxing than the usual kind , but I was wrong .
Yumi could get very angry over small things .
Finally I decided to stop the relationship .
It was too draining for me , " Uchida said .
Another Love By Mail user , who preferred not to give his name , had a more successful relationship with his bogus babe .
In fact , their romance was so successful that he said the experience of dating a virtual girlfriend was almost like having a mistress .
" You have the happiness of a secret woman , a hidden relationship , with none of the fear that your wife will find out and be angry .
My grandfather had the geisha , my father had the bar hostesses and I have Love By Mail .
It is maybe hard for others to understand , but these substitutes , or additions , for the everyday relationship between a husband and wife are well accepted in our culture . "
Love By Mail was developed by Bandai , the Japanese toy company that manufactured Tamagotchi , the squalling electronic pets that were so popular a few years ago .
The company says that more than 30,000 Japanese men have signed up for Love By Mail , available only to i-mode subscribers .
I-mode is a mobile Internet service offered by NTT DoCoMo , available only in Japan .
The service has close to 13 million subscribers .
I-mode , which stands for " Information mode , " gives subscribers across Japan always-on , inexpensive , wireless access to the Internet .
about $ 5 a month for basic service
Sites developed for i-mode use cHTML , a subset of the HTML coding used to create typical Web pages .
compact HTML
There are also special DoCoMo coding characters to create icons that represent concepts such as joy , kisses , sadness , hot spring baths , noodle shops , the Shinkansen train line and Japanese holidays .




Bezos Distributes the Love

FERNLEY , Nevada -- A thousand dot-com employees are huddled around Amazon.com CEO Jeff Bezos , hanging on his every word .
You might say that this is n't really an unusual sight -- Bezos , the " It " boy of e-commerce , is probably always greeted by adoring fans .
But this is not San Francisco , Seattle or New York .
It 's a small town in Western Nevada , about 30 miles from Reno and the nearest Starbucks , which for most new economy workers is known as " pretty much the middle of nowhere . "
Despite the fatal dearth of Odwalla , there are dot-commers in this town , believe it or not .
They work at Amazon.com 's airport-sized distribution center , and last Friday afternoon , their boss Bezos came to give them a pep talk .
Bezos had come to Fernley to get the employees ready for the holiday season , when the distribution center will ramp up from the normal 35 percent capacity to somewhere near 100 .
Bezos was dressed in expensive slacks and a sports jacket ; the employees , in stark contrast , wore un-snooty , K-Martish clothes .
The cultural rift seemed obvious -- that is , until Bezos ascended a makeshift platform of warehouse palettes to address the crowd , and they went crazy .
" Hello , Fernley ! "
Bezos , said , as if he were a rock star .
The workers hollered in response .
They had all taken a short break from their regular assignments of picking , packing , labeling , shipping and receiving , to sit on the floor and watch a billionaire speak .
Bezos ' talk was light on issues , but heavy on personality .
Bezos -- who is known to the employees as " Jeff " -- started with a joke about how his name had recently been featured as an answer on Who Wants to be a Millionaire .
" My sister called me to tell me about it , " he said . "
But then she said , ' It was the wrong answer .
' " Bezos laughed heartily , and then said that his siblings always told him that he had a weird laugh .
For the record , it is a weird laugh .
The Fernley plant , which is a year old , was just barely operational last holiday season .
For many of the Fernley workers , this will be the first December at the plant .
" I want to ask those of you who were here last year , ' Was it easy ?
' " Bezos yelled to the crowd .
" No ! " they responded .
" Are you terrified ? " he asked .
" No ! " they said .
" Well you should be , " he laughed . "
It is really brutal -- the holiday comes on us like an onslaught ! "
Needless to say , the people who work at the Amazon distribution center are cut from a different cloth than the scripting gurus in other Internet towns .
AMZN
As a group , they look older than dot-com employees in other cities .
Amazon does n't track their average age , but many in the crowd looked older than 50 or 60 -- certainly older than Bezos , who is 36 .
What was surprising , then , was how fully they seemed to embrace Bezos -- none of the " he 's just a rich city slicker " indifference one might have expected .
Indeed , they wanted to know about Jeff on a personal level .
" How 's your baby ? " someone asked when Bezos elicited questions from the audience .
When Bezos answered that his eight-month-old son is named after the child 's grandfather , people in the crowd actually aah'ed , like a sit-com audience .
" Will your wife be coming to help us gift-wrap ? " another employee asked .




Tonga Sells Its Old , New Genes

For genetic researchers , it 's the mother lode : an isolated community with an interesting disease or two .
And an Australian biotechnology company , Autogen Limited -- led by a mining entrepreneur , no less -- will soon be tapping into the first of what it hopes are many rich Polynesian veins .
Autogen has signed an agreement with Tonga 's Ministry of Health to build its own private genetic database from the 108,000 people of the Kingdom of Tonga .
The company has worked in Tonga researching obesity and diabetes but wanted to expand into other research areas .
And Tonga , like other Pacific Islands that have acquired the less healthy aspects of Western lifestyle , has been expanding its disease catalog .
" In most of these countries , what used to be communicable diseases were the major health problems .
All the non-communicable diseases are now taking over as the more communicable diseases are now under control , " said professor Greg Collier , Autogen 's director of research and development .
The Tonga database could allow Autogen to hunt down the genes behind common diseases such as cardiovascular disease , hypertension , certain cancers and stomach ulcers . "
All these things are appearing as affluence appears , " Collier said . "
Now a lot of the South Pacific islands provide good opportunities to look at these genes appearing in countries that are being rapidly modernized .
And the countries are still relatively homogeneous in their genetic background . "
Under the agreement with Tonga -- the only constitutional monarchy in the Pacific -- Autogen will establish a research facility in Tonga to build up a genetic database .
Autogen will n't own any of the samples it gathers -- they 'll remain the property of Tonga -- but it will have exclusive access to the health database .
Collier said Autogen will use information from the database with partners and other companies to develop disease-specific drugs .
In return for access to these samples and data , Autogen will provide annual research funding to Tonga 's Ministry of Health and royalties on revenues generated from any discoveries that are commercialized .
Later , any pharmaceutical drugs that are produced and distributed would be given to Tonga free of charge .
Collier will n't be drawn on the precise amount of money involved . "
We 're going to develop this as quickly as we can , " he said , " and it will be serious money that goes in there . "
Collier plans to visit Tonga next month and hopes to start collecting samples in January 2001 .
All participation in the project is voluntary , according to the Tonga Ministry of Health . "
We can n't force them to take part in the survey , " says the ministry 's ' Ahio Tuakoi .
And the boss of Autogen Melbourne , mining entrepreneur Joseph Gutnick , is adamant the whole process will be of the highest ethical standards . "
Hopefully through those studies , done on a very ethical manner , we 'll be able to make new discoveries to enhance the living standard of the people living in Tonga and also for general humanity , " Gutnick was reported as saying by Radio New Zealand .
The Ministry of Health has already identified potential volunteers from families with high rates of diseases such as cancer . "
The study will not cover the whole population .
It is only selected families where the disease is common , rather than taking the whole population , " ' Ahio Tuakoi says .
In New Zealand , an extended family with a high rate of gastric cancer entered an agreement with researchers several years back .
Otago University researchers , who were trying to track down the mutant gene behind the affected family 's illness , agreed to split equally any proceeds from patents resulting from that work with the family trust .
Dr. Parry Guilford , the senior research fellow on that study , regards negotiated agreements between the study group and researchers as the only way to allay concerns over exploitation of smaller , seemingly vulnerable , communities . "
I think there is a growing awareness that individuals or families do have a major stake in this kind of research , " he said .
" You kind of get suspicious when you see people going off to little islands and things and you 're going to immediately think there 's something going on which is mischievous , " Guilford said . "
It 's not because they are poor and probably uneducated or largely uneducated that they are doing it .
the group being studied
the researchers
It 's because they do offer this tremendously powerful resource from a genetic viewpoint to actually go out and find these genes . "
The Autogen research will have added spinoffs for Tonga : more training and work for scientists and modern equipment available to the hospital when not in use for the genetic research .
In Tonga so far , according to the ministry , people have no qualms about the move . "
We have n't received any concerns from the public yet so far , " Tuakoi said .
He 's hopeful Tongans will see the benefits for the wider community . "
I 'm sure people will appreciate the effort for the benefit of the public at large . "




' Am I Hot or Not ?
' Is Red Hot

In a few short weeks , Am I Hot or Not ? has become one of the hottest sites on the Internet .
The site features photographs of ordinary people and a voting mechanism for rating attractiveness on a scale of one to 10 -- 10 is hot , one is not .
Launched just six weeks ago as a joke , the site is attracting upwards of 3 million page views a day .
It recorded 7 million page views on the weekends .
It has n't spent a penny on advertising .
" It 's insanely viral , " said co-founder James Hong , who launched the site with his roommate Jim Young . "
We 've never seen an application this viral . "
More than 90,000 pictures have been submitted to the site .
New photos are coming in at a rate of 3,000 to 4,000 a day .
Someone has even submitted a picture of Katherine Harris , Florida 's secretary of state .
The site has inspired scores of parodies Am I President or Not ? , Monkey , Hot or Not ? ; and copycats : Bangable.com , amihotornot.de .
The site obviously appeals to people 's vanity .
Even professional models have submitted pictures , which are sometimes taken down because they appear fake .
" I get e-mails saying , ' I 'm real .
I 'm a model , but I 'm real , ' " Hong said .
Am I Hot Or Not ? was initially targeted by the porn industry , which flooded it with pictures of disrobed models .
But the site 's users proved very diligent at reporting porn , which is quickly filtered out , Hong said .
" We really do n't want porn on there , " Hong said . "
There are plenty of other places on the Internet for that . "
As well as removing dirty pictures , Hong said he has had to tweak the voting mechanism , which was too harsh on some people .
" The scores were skewing too low , " he said . "
Some people gave everyone a 1 just to get through the pictures quickly .
I think it 's a little fairer now . "
Hong , a " dot-com refugee " who is between jobs , and Young , a graduate student at Berkeley , run the site from their apartment in Mountain View , California .
The site was created for fun -- " We were drinking , " said Hong -- but may yet turn into a money spinner .
" The problem is sustainability , " said Hong . "
Will it be a fad or something people keep coming back to ?
There was no original business plan .
Now we want to figure out how to make it profitable .
We have some ideas . "
Although the pair spent no money promoting the site , it has received a lot of press , especially on European TV .
It 's also a regular feature on buzz-generating sites like Weblogs .
It 's not even the only site of its kind .
There is also AmIHot.com , RateMyPicture.com and RateMyFace.com .
The key to its popularity , it seems , is its simple interface .
Such is the buzz surrounding the site , even a self-parody created by Hong and Young , Am I Goth or Not ? , is pulling in about 200,000 page views a day .
According to Hong , they told only one person about that site when it was launched a couple of weeks ago .




The Napster Master Plan

While jaws dropped throughout the digital music space after Bertelsmann 's eCommerce group extended the olive branch to Napster , the German media conglomerate has its eyes on a bigger prize -- the global market for electronic entertainment .
Since last year , parent company Bertelsmann AG has been developing a digital distribution superhighway through its Digital World Services division .
DWS
The goal : create the infrastructure to deliver secure digital media to retailers throughout the world .
Although the recent partnership with file-trading company Napster has focused everyone 's attention on the music sector right now , Bertelsmann said that 's just the first reel in an epic media adventure .
" Besides music , we are moving toward having our first publishing house online in Q1 of next year , " Johann Butting , the CEO of the DWS division , said . "
We 're already looking into movies , then games will come later .
Eventually , we 'll be looking into business opportunities . "
other
The DWS division has a jump start on its most likely competition -- Sony and a combined Time Warner-America Online .
Butting said that his company was the first major media conglomerate to begin building a ubiquitous , worldwide distribution network .
The company 's business-to-business enterprise wants to connect content companies to their online retailers .
" We are the service provider , " Butting said . "
The business is to operate the technology platform that is selected by the content companies , and support the content companies . "
While DWS will n't be working directly with the new network being developed , Butting said that very likely eCommerce Group CEO Thomas Middelhoff will be joining his board of directors .
He would then consult with among others , BMG Entertainment executives , to determine the future direction of DWS .
Last October , DWS was internally spun off from BMG Entertainment , which remains a shareholder in the company .
That creates a very interesting synergy for the DWS division , which could benefit greatly from a new , expanded multimedia version of Napster .
" Andreas has the idea to make Napster a big part of this , " Butting said . "
Schmidt , eCommerce Group chairman
The stickiness of the site makes the consumer part very valuable , and Napster has a big piece of the distribution pie on the Internet right now . "
According to Napster , the company now has over 40 million users .
But since the partnership with Bertelsmann is still fresh , DWS has looked elsewhere to develop distribution business models .




It 's a Cinch to Click for Charity

Throughout the year , and especially over the holidays , a slew of charitable websites hope to make it quick and easy for people to donate money to their favorite cause .
But the reigning charity champion does n't want your money .
According to PC Data Online , the Hunger Site has led the pack of nonprofits and donation websites for over six months , consistently garnering over two million unique users per month .
The concept is simple : With the click of a mouse , the visit buys one cup of food for a hungry person .
The food is paid for by advertisers on the site .
More sophisticated sites like Charitygift , 4 Charity , iGive.com , and GreaterGood.com , which enable the consumer to contribute by shopping or making a direct donation , did not register in PC Data 's top five for the month of October .
" People go to charity websites to find out about the charity or donate there , " said Jeff Moulton , an analyst with PC Data Online . "
There 's not much of a reason to go back to it .
" The Hunger Site is an example of where you may want to because the money is not coming out of your pocket every day .
return
People do n't have unlimited resources . "
The average user spends six days a month at the Hunger Site , and 38 percent visit the site more than 10 days a month , Moulton said .
The popularity of the grassroots Hunger Site -- which also won the People 's Voice award for activism at the Webby Awards this year -- attracted GreaterGood.com , which purchased the site in February .
The parent company soon rolled out similar sites with the same model .
The Rainforest Site , launched in May , buys about 14 square feet of rainforest with each click .
It is also in the top five of PC Data Online 's list .
The Kids AIDS Site debuted in September ; the Child Survival Site , and the Breast Cancer Site were added in October .
The Land Mine Site will launch next month , and more of the click-to-donate sites are in the works .
" It 's really easy to do and it literally takes seconds out of your day , " said Laura Beveridge , the public relations manager for GreaterGood.com . "
That 's the beauty of these sites and that 's why they have been so successful . "
Beveridge said that GreaterGood.com expects to raise over $ 5 million for charity this year , but would not divulge what portion of the total is generated through its click-to-donate sites .




New Device Improves Low Vision

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
There 's a gray space between total blindness and the types of vision problems that can be easily corrected with lenses or laser surgery .
People with a condition called " low vision " retain some ability to see but can n't read most printed material , watch TV or get around easily in the world .
Low vision can n't be corrected with medical procedures , glasses or contact lenses .
But a new product that uses lasers to " paint " rows of pixels directly onto the eye is helping people with low-vision see clearly again .
Microvision 's Nomad integrates Microvision 's retinal scanning display technology into a device that 's worn on the user 's head .
RSD
Nomad 's low-power beam of light sends information directly onto the eye , creating high-resolution , see-through , full-motion images that appear to be floating directly in front of the user , at about an arm's-length away .
Nomad consists of two pieces : a small control module worn clipped on to a belt , and the head-worn display .
The control module receives a video signal from a computer -- a desktop , laptop or a wearable computer -- which processes this signal to drive a low-power laser .
The light is then scanned by a small mirror to create images .
A clear " Viewport " directs light to the eye .
This light source is controlled by miniature horizontal and vertical scanners that project the image through an optical element into the viewer 's eye , placing the image directly onto the user 's retina .
The experience , according to prototype users , makes you feel as if you 're looking at a large TV screen that 's placed right in front of you .
Nomad has been under development since January .
Microvision tested alpha-version prototypes over the past year , in order to assess customer interest and improve on the product 's design .
The product was originally designed as a wearable display for users in medical and industrial fields who need to access information while keeping their hands free .
Such workers would be paramedics who need to view critical patient data while administering first-aid , and aircraft mechanics who want to be able to reference electronic manuals and engineering schematics while working on planes .
Microvision expanded its vision for Nomad when it was approached by Telesensory , a company that provides products that assist people with low vision .
" Through the partnership with Telesensory , we saw that Nomad had characteristics that would make it beneficial to low-vision users with macular degeneration , " said Chris Thero , the product manager for Nomad at Microvision .
Telesensory plans to combine its existing low-vision products with the Nomad display to improve the ability of people with low vision to read printed material .




EPA to Cream GM Corn ?

ARLINGTON , Virginia -- Keith Lynch does n't merely believe genetically modified corn is safe for people to eat .
The 43-year-old computer programmer is perfectly willing to swallow a handful of Aventis CropScience 's StarLink kernels to make his point .
" It 's perfectly safe , " Lynch said between mouthfuls on Tuesday afternoon outside a meeting of a federal advisory panel that was debating whether to approve the controversial StarLink corn for human consumption .
Lynch and a lonely handful of free-market activists who handed out flyers titled " Stop the anti-GM madness " were easily outnumbered , however , by some two dozen Greenpeace protesters who shared the same sidewalk outside the Holiday Inn Rosslyn .
Wearing cow , chicken , and pig masks , the Greenpeace protesters posed for photographers next to a makeshift feed trough filled with corn -- not Starlink 's corn , a representative said , but the traditional variant .
" We 're here to tell the Environmental Protection Agency not to approve Starlink corn , " said Charles Margulis , a Greenpeace anti-genetic engineering campaigner . "
This is genetically altered corn that 's not fit for human consumption . "
StarLink was approved for use as animal feed in 1998 because of concerns that its special protein might cause allergic reactions in humans .
Traces of the corn turned up in taco shells in September , triggering a recall of more than 300 kinds of foods and widespread genetic testing by food manufacturers .
The Environmental Protection Agency asked its panel of 15 physicians , toxicologists and other scientists to figure out whether StarLink , which has been engineered to repel destructive pests , presents a health risk to humans .
The committee 's recommendations are due by Friday , and the EPA is expected to act soon after that .
Scientists with the Centers for Disease Control and the Food and Drug Administration said during the panel 's daylong meeting on Tuesday that they were investigating claims that the gene-spliced StarLink corn caused rashes , diarrhea , vomiting , itching and life-threatening anaphylactic shock .
" We 're continuing to follow these people and are trying to get as much medical information as we can , " Dr. Karl Klontz , an FDA epidemiologist , said .
He presented summaries of 44 cases in which people claimed to have suffered allergic reactions .




Investing in People , Not Profits

AUSTIN , Texas -- Austin Social Ventures Partners is a bit like a high-tech Robin Hood .
Except the partners make donations of their own free will and instead of giving to the poor , they 're channeling the money -- as well as energy and expertise -- to nonprofits in need of an upgrade .
Taking its business model from Social Venture Partners of Seattle , five people -- four of them Dell Computer Corporation employees -- came together in spring of 1999 to form Austin Social Venture Partners .
Classified as a 501(c)3 , ASVP chooses recipients based on a number of factors , including need and commitment to the Austin-area community .
Currently the ASVP is helping 11 such " investees , " among them the Lone Star Council of Girl Scouts , and a group called Knowbility that wants to make technology barrier-free for people with disabilities .
The Girl Scouts used its $ 25,000 grant to help build a local technology center .
Knowbility received $ 22,000 , some of which is earmarked for screen-reading software , which provides an audio description of the screen for the sight-impaired .
" Ninety-nine percent of the world 's websites are inaccessible to blind people , " said Knowbility founder Steve Guengerich , who is also an ASVP founding board member . "
We can describe what the image represents , such as if the screen is displaying an IBM logo . "
ASVP has 75 member " units , " which are made up of individuals , couples or teams of individuals .
Each unit contributes a minimum of $ 5,000 annually , plus an administrative fee of roughly $ 500 .
Like its predecessor in Seattle , the firm is modeled after venture capital partnerships .
According to ASVP founders , the concept was spearheaded by Seattle resident Paul Brainerd .
He sold software company Aldus Corporation to Adobe in the early '90s , and then turned to the need for philanthropic organizations and ways to steer new wealth into servicing nonprofits .
ASVP 's philosophy and philanthropy does n't stop at dealing the dollar .
Organization members ' time , talent and connections are part of the bequest , says ASVP executive director McKeever Darby .
Like its counterparts in other cites , ASVP also extends a hand by sending in a seasoned volunteer member to help with specific issues .
Recently the company assisted Sustainable Food Center in working out the details for a merger with another company .
ASVP sent in a volunteer with specific expertise in the subject to help ease the company 's transition .




Germans Join Crazy Bovine Scare

BERLIN -- Bring on the bratwurst .
Or chicken .
Or fish .
Anything but beef !
That 's what a lot of Germans are saying now that their country has joined many others around Europe by having to worry about so-called mad cow disease .
Over the weekend , word of Germany 's first two confirmed cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy set off a full-scale panic .
Germany had previously insisted that its cows were free of the disease , which has shown up in Britain , France , Ireland , Portugal , Switzerland and -- just last week -- Spain .
Britain traced a link in 1996 between BSE and Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease , a human form of the brain-wasting condition that has so far accounted for 80 deaths in Britain and two in France .
Since then , millions of cattle have been slaughtered in a bid to contain BSE .
Just last month , the current European panic touched off in France when news broke that beef from a herd in which at least one animal had BSE ended up on supermarket shelves .
" BSE-Panik " screamed the cover of Tuesday 's Berliner Kurier tabloid .
Another tabloid , B.Z. , heralded " BSE-Angst " on its cover with a picture of a woman dumping frozen hamburger into her trash bin .
The same publication also went with " BSE Insanity Without End " , illustrated with a photo of three cows looking distinctly unhappy .
Over the weekend , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder defended his government against the charge that it had been " complacent " in thinking BSE would not hit Germany .
" This is not just a German problem , it 's a problem affecting all of Europe , " he told Reuters .
But Edmund Stoiber , premier of Bavaria and an outspoken conservative critic of the Social Democratic chancellor , blasted the government 's earlier approach to BSE .
" It is disgraceful the way the government put commerce ahead of the public 's safety , " he said .
A trade group representing Germany 's largest group of butchers estimated on Monday that sales of beef had declined by as much as 50 percent since the news hit .
A cow in Schleswig-Holstein , near Denmark , was the first domestically raised animal to test positive for BSE , and another that was shipped to the Azores also tested positive .
" The people I was talking to said they are n't going to eat any more beef , at least for the next few weeks , " said Sonja Ernst , 27 , who is finishing her masters in political science at Free University . "
Today I went to the library , and they had two soups there for dinner , and no one would take any of the one that had beef in it , because you can n't be sure where they get it . "
Over at Alexanderplatz -- the square that used to be a major center of East Berlin -- 23-year-old Daniel Lenski was eating a chicken supreme at Burger King and explaining why the national panic did not affect him .
" Germany pretended to be free of this and now it 's ' Oh God , ' " he said . "
But I never thought Germany was a BSE-free land .
It does n't stop on the border .
I 'm not more afraid of it now than before -- I 'm afraid every day .
I only eat beef once in a while anyway .
Now I am not eating any . "




Europe 's New Enviro Regs

BRUSSELS , Belgium -- European governments have backed a move toward continent-wide rules on civil liability for internationally significant industrial accidents at a meeting in Brussels on Thursday .
Proposed by Switzerland , the initiative is a response to January 's Baia Mare cyanide spill in Romania , which sent cyanide-tainted water down the rivers of Eastern Europe and into the Black Sea , demonstrating how water pollution incidents can have significant transboundary impacts .
Last week 's meeting was the first Conference of Parties to the 1992 Convention on the Transboundary Effects of Industrial Accidents , which entered into force on April 19 .
Negotiated through the UN Economic Commission for Europe , the international agreement aims to harmonize systems for preventing and controlling industrial accidents that could have international impacts including rules on mutual assistance , rapid communication about accidents and technological exchange .
UN/ECE
Convention secretary Sergiusz Ludwiczak admitted that eight years between the convention 's agreement and entry into force was a long time , but claimed a new impetus for implementation following Baia Mare .
In particular , he said , Parties last week agreed to create a joint working group on preventing accidental water pollution incidents together with the UN/ECE Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes .
Parties welcomed the proposal first made by Switzerland in February for a civil liability protocol to be developed jointly under the two conventions .
A joint meeting of Parties in 2001 will decide whether to launch official inter-governmental negotiations .
The European Commission , which hosted Thursday 's meeting , expressed its strong support .
The industrial accidents convention is being implemented in close cooperation with the European Union , given the large degree of overlap with the bloc 's existing law on industrial accidents involving hazardous substances .
" We 've managed to come very close on procedures so there will be no additional work for EU members , " said Ludwiczak .
Other developments at the meeting included agreement on an international accident early warning system .
Parties also promised collaboration to identify industrial installations handling hazardous substances .
The European Commission agreed that its major accident hazards bureau would analyze information submitted by Parties about industrial accidents .
The Convention on the Transboundary Effects of Industrial Accidents was ratified by Albania , Armenia , Austria , Bulgaria , Croatia , Czech Republic , Estonia , Finland , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Norway , Republic of Moldova , Russian Federation , Spain , Sweden , Switzerland and the European Community .
The full text of the Convention is available on the UN/ECE website .
Published in cooperation with ENDS Environment Daily .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




What Are You Doing , Arthur ?

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
HAL 9000 could easily operate a complex spaceship , show affection , scheme and murder , read lips and play chess .
About the only things that HAL could n't handle were lies and confusion .
Arthur C. Clarke 's miraculous machine saw things in stark black and white ; when shades of gray entered the picture the machine went mad .
And now , with the strange and sudden announcement of a production-line version of 2001 : A Space Odyssey 's most captivating character , whatever is left of HAL may be starting to hear those gibbering voices again .
A British tabloid , The Guardian , wrote this week that Clarke is backing Joseph de Saram , a controversial computer entrepreneur , in his plans to produce a version of HAL for the masses .
The machine will be dubbed the Clarke Omniputer and is due to be released in January 2001 .
Rumors and speculation surround the project , and de Saram , Clarke 's principal partner in the venture , has massive legal and financial problems that reportedly caused him to flee the UK last week .
That led some observers to believe that the 82-year-old Clarke may have been suckered into a bad deal .
De Saram has made spectacular promises concerning the machine 's capabilities .
But any real details on the project have so far been impossible to pry out of Clarke 's representatives or spokespeople for the company that will be developing the machine .
Others believe the announcement is a carefully calculated Clarke publicity stunt intended to launch a media blitz featuring his 2001-themed work .
According to press statements released by de Saram , Clarke Omniputers already has 60,000 advance orders for the machine , which will be manufactured in China .
The company also expects to sell an additional 350,000 units after the product becomes available .
The machine will be priced in the $ 2,000 range .
But the anticipated launch of the Omniputer suffered a setback last week when a British court ordered de Saram , now the CEO of Clarke Omniputers , to shut down his other company , Rhodium , because of 1 million in debts .
De Saram reportedly responded by fleeing the UK last week and is now believed to be living in Sri Lanka , where Clarke also lives .
Claiming in the British media that he has a net worth of 4 billion , de Saram has stated he can pay the debts , but instead chose to leave the UK because he was being harassed by the British secret service agency MI5 and the National Criminal Intelligence Service .
He says the harassment was due to an encryption program he developed that would block the ability of intelligence agencies to collect data from e-mail .
Both agencies have denied having any interest in de Saram , and some observers believe that his claims for the Omniputer are as far-fetched as his spy stories .




RIAA Agent Treated Like Royalty

Despite continuing protests from musician 's rights groups concerned with the growing power of the music industry , the recording industry launched its digital royalty collection agency on Tuesday .
The SoundExchange service will collect royalties from online radio stations and webcasters on behalf of more than 2000 record labels including the five majors .
SoundExchange would then split the monies equally between the labels and musicians , based on the terms laid out by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act .
DMCA
All of the major labels have opted to have SoundExchange distribute the artists ' money directly .
Representatives from the Association for Independent Music , the America Federation of of Musicians , and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists issued statements Tuesday supporting SoundExchange .
AFIM
AFM
AFTRA
But there is a growing concern amongst musician 's rights groups that the Recording Industry Association of America -- which gets its funding primarily from Sony , EMI , Warner , BMG and Universal -- will n't represent the best interests of artists .
RIAA
" I think that if you believe as I do that in the next five to ten years the majority of music will be performed , then we are looking at digital performances and this is going to be a substantial portion of artists ' revenues , " said Noah Stone , the executive director of Artists Against Piracy . "
or streamed
It 's imperative that artists get that money fairly . "
" I do believe there needs to be a third party -- an organization set up for this purpose that has a constituency , which is not part of a group that is controlling the whole show , " Stone said .
Although the apparent conflict of interest might pose a public relations problem for the RIAA , Stone 's main worry was that the new performance royalty would not benefit artists .
Since artists usually do n't receive a performance royalty , he said the rush to collect the new monies might cause only the major label 's interests to be represented and the U.S. Copyright Office to set royalty rates unfavorable to artists .
" The major labels get to choose between pressing plants based on quality of service and price , " said Jenny Toomey , the executive director of the Future of Music Coalition . "
But this is a system where artists can only choose one place to collect royalties .
" Plus , the independent labels who have chosen to avoid the label system should n't be forced to go collect their money from the system they 've chosen to avoid . "
RIAA
Toomey said that the RIAA has proven in the past that it does n't necessarily operate in the best interests of the musicians , pointing to the trade association 's questionable actions during the works-for-hire legislation earlier this year .
" It 's particularly egregious to give the RIAA the ability to collect for artists ' work-for-hire issue , because they 've proven untrustworthy in their actions toward artists , " Toomey said .
Last year the music labels successfully lobbied to insert into unrelated legislation a clause that prevents copyrights from reverting to their authors .
In August , the industry reversed its tack and agreed with artists to recommend rescinding the change to copyright law .
But the DMCA leaves very little leeway for the RIAA or SoundExchange to misrepresent artists , said John Simson , SoundExchange 's senior director .
" The statute in the DMCA sets out how the money gets paid out , " said Simson . "
We 're working very hard at this , and on the SoundExchange side we 're going to be very transparent .
We 'll hire a third party to audit us and the Copyright Office stands above us as well .
Not to mention , the big labels are going to be looking at this as well since we are collecting their money . "
To help assuage the fears of Stone and others , the 13-member SoundExchange governance committe will include artists Aimee Mann and David Sanborn along with two musicians ' union representatives .
Since artists represent a minority interest on the board , their votes will be weighted to even out the power , Simson said .




Lie Test : Bush 57 , Gore 23

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Tell your last lie now .
A new portable polygraph meant for consumer use is said to be able to snag eight out of 10 tall tales simply by analyzing the stress levels in the fibber 's voice .
The " Handy Truster " can be plugged mobile phones and landlines , or used surreptitiously during face-to-face conversations .
The device , priced at about $ 50 , indicates lies by way of an apple icon on its display screen .
35
If the speaker is telling the truth , then the apple remains pristine .
If the speaker is evasive , then the apple looks half-eaten .
And if a speaker is spinning a complicated and fanciful tale , then with each successive fib another bite is removed from the apple .
An immediate transformation to a fully gnawed apple core signifies a big , honking lie .
" It may sound like another stupid gadget , but the technology behind it is real , " said Salvatore DeVecchio , a retired New York City police officer who now works as a private detective .
The Handy Truster uses technology that was originally developed for the Israeli military by Trustech , a software developer in Herzliya , Israel that makes vocal analysis software primarily for use in the legal and governmental areas .
During the presidential debates , Truster Technology was used on Al Gore and George W. Bush by Time magazine reporters .
Truster said Bush told 57 lies and Gore 23 during the three debates , according to the voice analysis .
DeVecchio said that voice-based polygraph analysis is a more accurate indicator of lying than standard polygraphs are .
Jonathan Shapiro , a Manhattan criminal lawyer , agreed . "
Polygraphs all measure physical responses and some people can control those responses , " he said . "
And those who are the most skilled at lying typically are also the best at suppressing their unconscious responses to those lies . "
" But the human voice is much harder to control mostly because people who are n't professionally trained in how to use their voices , such as singers or actors , simply are n't able to control their vocal cords , " Shapiro continued . "
Most of us are more accustomed to dealing with the other physical symptoms of stress , like rapid heart rate and sweating , and can control them to some degree or another . "
Truster 's technology mathematically calculates the stress levels in a human voice which change due to reduced blood flow to the vocal cords when someone is lying .
" Basically , due to varied and typical physiological changes due to stress , blood flow to the vocal cords would be restricted somewhat when people lie .
So , yes , that could affect subtle changes in their vocal patterns , " said Dr. Avery Adams of St. Luke Roosevelt Hospital in New York .
DeVecchio cautions that the technology should not be trusted implicitly .
That 's a sentiment that is echoed by its manufacturers , who recommend using the product only as a " decision-support tool " and strongly suggest that people use their common sense in analyzing the results .
DeVecchio also pointed out that people can test false if they are " sincere but secretly doubtful . "
" If they say , for example , that they are going to love you forever , but on some level they sort of have doubts about the whole concept of long-lasting love , then what they are saying may register as a lie .
So you need to factor the polygraph information into a total picture , " DeVecchio said .
The Handy Truster also needs to be calibrated against the sound of a truthful statement by a specific speaker , a procedure that can take at least 30 seconds .
" Look , I would n't use this Truster thing to make life-altering decisions , OK ? " said Delvecchio . "
But people certainly view you differently when they think they are being clever and you catch 'em and alert them to their bullshit . "
" Still , you really do n't want to accuse them unless you 're totally sure they are lying , because some people are really sensitive about stuff like that . "




Security Firm 's Site Defaced

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Crackers have entered and defaced two websites belonging to Network Associates , the company that bills itself as the world 's largest independent network security company .
The intruders splattered a montage of bilingual cyber-graffiti over two of the company 's Brazilian-based websites , www.nai.com.br and www.mcafee.com.br .
The crack has been attributed to a group called Insanity Zine Corp.
Network Associates media spokeswoman Jennifer Kavney said that Network Associates itself was not cracked , but Matrix , the ISP that hosts the company 's Brazilian websites , was breached and this allowed the attackers access to Network Associates sites .
" To make matters worse they hacked in through a known vulnerability , which Matrix had received a patch for on November 7 and evidently never applied , " said Kavney in disgust .
Kavney said this was a " nuisance hack " and stressed that there was no actual penetration of Network Associates ' websites or databases .
" There was no damage to our systems , no destruction of data , no exposure of any of our information . "
The crackers reportedly entered the sites early on Thursday morning and redecorated , tossing up sentences that poked fun at Network Associates security and anti-virus software tools , and claiming ownership of the site .
EST
They also added a few personal sentiments like " God Save the Script Kiddies . "
Reaction to the attack in hacking circles has been mixed .
" I hate to see any site defaced , OK , because I believe in hacking not cracking , " said a " subterranean security expert " who goes by the name of MunkeebIz .
MunkeebIz noted that " hacking is exploration , and cracking is exploitation . "
" But you got to give props to the people who can crack a computer security site .
It 's like shooting a porn film at the Vatican while the pope looks on in wonder . "




TV Jumps on Broadband Wagon

LOS ANGELES -- Convergence may be a popular buzzword with technology insiders , but it 's usually met with a collective yawn from the general public .
The latest devices for delivering Internet content over broadband being showcased at cable TV 's The Western Show , however , could finally activate the interest of couch potatoes .
Although interactive video services have been talked about more than they 've been seen during the past few years , Forrester Research estimates 4.9 million homes will have some sort of service by the end of 2000 .
Interactive video was in just 700,000 homes in 1999 ; Forrester sees that number climbing to 12.2 million in 2001 .
Many devices on display are prototypes , such as an early version of a box powered by an AMD Athlon CPU that combines the functions of a DVD player , cable box , satellite receiver base station , CD player and interactive TV .
The unit , which was on display at the SCM Microsystems booth , runs " Whistler , " a future version of Microsoft Windows 2000 , but will n't be out for more than two years .
EnjoyWeb of Sunnyvale , California is making its first public splash with a software-based media delivery system for hardware vendors like TiVo , Microsoft , Scientific Atlanta and other set-top box makers .
But unlike TiVo , which manages recording of TV programs , EnjoyWeb 's software controls Internet video content that is delivered by a cable modem .
The software stores Internet multimedia that would normally be downloaded and viewed on the computer on a hard disk in the set-top device , and plays it back in full screen .
The content can also be shared with a PC , which can display a second video simultaneously .
It 's not a direct streaming service , according to EnjoyWeb officials .
You select the media you want at night and it downloads from the Internet while you 're asleep , so the next morning all that content is sitting on the hard disk in a set-top box .
So while you may not be able to watch live events at the HouseOfBlues.com , you can enjoy content that is available on demand .
EnjoyWeb expects to have its software integrated by set-top device makers by 2002 .
EnjoyWeb was just one of many vendors at the show trying to push the TV and computer closer together via broadband .
Integra 5 , developer of The Messaging Channel , a broadband service for cable and satellite , announced a partnership Wednesday with interface company Interlink Electronics to create a broadband messaging service that enables people to send and receive messages that include text , audio and video clips and even handwritten notes .
Integra 5 will begin testing The Messaging Channel in January of 2001 .
In addition to the e-mail service , it will provide instant messaging and chat rooms using a broadband connection but connected to the television .
The system uses a remote control or voice input instead of a keyboard .
Comcast Cable Communications is beefing up its interactive services .
CMCSA
The company announced it would also deploy Wink Communications ' interactive e-commerce TV services .
Wink 's Enhanced Broadcasting allows advertisers and cable networks to enhance their broadcasting so watchers can buy a product they see advertised with a click .
Comcast also announced a deal to offer Juno 's Internet access service to its customers .
Juno is taking a similar track to AtHome in pushing its services to broadband cable providers .
Juno is also working on a deal with Time Warner , which recently struck a deal with Earthlink to offer broadband services .
Tribune Media Services , a subsidiary of the Tribune Company media giant , introduced an interactive movie guide , called Zap2it Movies .
TRB
It will carry full-length movie trailers normally only shown in theaters , and provide the show times of movies in the viewer 's area .
The broadband cable service is similar to a website that the Tribune launched earlier this year .




AIDS Experts Decry Empty Promises

Despite all the promises , hopes and hype , the HIV and AIDS epidemic remains virtually unchanged in poor countries around the world , according to a panel of experts .
Drug companies talked a good game at July 's 13th International AIDS Conference in Durban , South Africa -- promising , among other things , to reduce the high prices for life-saving treatments , prices that the majority of people suffering from the disease can n't afford .
But now critics are saying it was merely " smoke and mirrors . "
" The bottom line is we need real reduction in price , not public relations , " said Asia Russell , a member of Health Gap Coalition in Philadelphia . "
And need to be sustainable and broad without any sort of conditions attached . "
the reductions
Doctors Without Borders is calling on the big pharmaceutical companies to deliver on their promises by the first week of 2001 .
To date , Senegal is the only country that has succeeded in getting price cuts on AIDS drugs .
But critics say cost reductions should not be negotiated on a country-by-country basis .
They want unilateral discounts for all poor people .
" Pharmaceutical companies have it within their power to give an unconditional worldwide price reduction to make medications available to the largest amounts of people possible , " said Mark Heywood , deputy chair of the Treatment Action Campaign in South Africa .
" Meanwhile people are still suffering and dying from AIDS in poor countries , " said Dr. Anne-Valerie Kaninda , medical advisor for Doctors Without Borders .
Earlier this year , Pfizer offered the AIDS drug Fluconozol at a reduced price , but only for people who had contracted cryptococcal menengitis as a result of HIV .
On Friday , Pfizer is expected to announce that it will also offer the discounted price to people with candidiasis , a severe fungal infection that sometimes results from AIDS and can cause death .
The offer is also limited to the public health sector .
The three groups represented had mixed feelings about Pfizer 's offer .
" We regret it has taken nine months for this to take on any kind of reality , " Heywood said .
He added that many poor people with HIV and AIDS use private general practitioners , and will not benefit from this offer .
" We therefore are critical of the offer and do not accept it on these terms , " Heywood said .
The pharmaceutical companies were not available for comment .
AIDS treatment for one year for a resident of South Africa , where the majority of sufferers resides , can cost from $ 4,000 to $ 9,000 , while the average income is only $ 1,000 per year .




Only the Good Sites Die Young ?

In the early days of the e-commerce boom , anyone who claimed to have a book that listed every shopping site on the Internet would have been immediately recognized as a fool .
Back then , every noun in the English language -- from " book " to " yo-yo " -- was being turned into a shopping site .
But now , all that has changed .
In the past few months , several dot-com sites have died , and the printed shopping guides coming out this holiday season do n't have the problem of being too lean .
Indeed , they are a few sites too fat .
Take , for example , the new guide put out by Bizrate.com , a firm that rates online shopping sites .
Among the 700 or so sites listed in The Best of Online Shopping : 2001 , which has just been released to bookstores , one can find many recently failed dot-coms .
There 's Pets.com , the just-dead , sock puppet-wielding site , on page 142 ; a wilted Garden.com on page 94 ; and Drinks.com ; Bigwords.com ; and Furniture.com , all of which have just closed their doors .
page 72
52
93
Another guide just published by the ratings service Gomez , is also guilty of some sins of commission .
Indeed , in anticipation of a dot-com downturn , Gomez marked some sites with an asterisk , explaining that , Wall Street being as fickle as it is , some sites were n't guaranteed .
When contacted for comment , both Bizrate and Gomez defended their books in the obvious manner : Yes , they said , print is slower and more permanent than the Web -- are you surprised ?
" At the bottom of each page , it says , ' Log on to Bizrate.com , ' " said Bizrate CEO Chuck Davis , who suggested that consumers know the Web , by the very nature of the medium , is more up-to-date than print .
And of course , he 's right .
It is n't really big news that the printed guides , which are now at bookstores , include a few sites that are no longer around .
That problem 's to-be-expected in an industry as volatile as e-commerce .
And in both Gomez 's and Bizrate 's defense , it 's worth noting that there are just a few dead sites in a list of hundreds that are still up-and-running .
What is interesting about these dead dots showing up in the guides , though , are the high ratings they were given by both Bizrate and Gomez .
Of all the pet-supply sites monitored by Gomez , Pets.com was ranked the highest , earning a score of 7.70 on a 10-point scale .
Bizrate gives Pets.com an 8.7 and reported that one consumer said the site had " excellent selection . "
Another consumer told Bizrate that orders arrived on time and were accurate .
It 's the same story with other defunct sites .
Furniture.com gets a 7.5 rating from Bizrate , with the praise of , " The prices could n't be beat . "
The No. 1 site in Gomez 's furniture category is living.com , with an 8.32 overall rating .
But you guessed it -- living is also dead .
So why are the best sites dying so young ?
" Consumers seem to love the selection and prices of these sites , " Bizrate 's Davis said . "
But sometimes what consumers want is at odds with the investors . "
It 's a classic failed-business story , really .
The companies spent all of their funding on promoting their sites and improving customer experience .
And the money seems to have worked -- people started liking their services .
But not enough people , and not in time .
The funding dried up , and the sites had to be killed .
" It 's all very sad , " said Barbara Kasser , author of The Internet Shopping Yellow Pages , 2001 Edition , another print shopping guide .




DoCoMo Strikes AT&T Deal

Japan 's NTT DoCoMo said Thursday that it plans to buy 16 percent of AT&T Wireless Group for $ 9.8 billion .
Under the deal , AT&T Wireless (T) will set up a wholly owned subsidiary to produce multimedia applications for its current network , by importing technology used in DoCoMo 's " i-mode " Internet-ready phones .
DoCoMo will also take a 20 percent stake in Taiwan 's third-largest mobile carrier KG Telecom for 59.8 billion yen .
- - -
Dot-com job blues : According to a new report by the recruitment firm Challenger , Gray and Christmas , chief executive departures rose 59 percent in November to 111 , led by the dot-com sector .
Twenty-six dot-com company CEOs got the ax in November , making it the fourth consecutive month that dot-com companies led the technology industry for the most CEO departures .
Another Challenger survey released this week said a record number of job cuts were announced in the Internet industry in November , surpassing the 5,677 job cuts seen in October by 55 percent .
- - -
AT&T Wireless and Nokia : Finnish cell phone maker Nokia said it had signed a deal with AT&T Wireless to supply it with high-speed mobile Web-enabled technology .
The deal includes moving AT&T Wireless (T) in North America , where high-speed third-generation mobile phone networks will give wireless phone users access to multimedia services , Nokia said .
NOK
No further financial details were disclosed .
- - -
Yet another AT&T deal : AT&T Wireless Group has picked Lucent Technologies , Nortel Networks and Ericsson to supply equipment for its high-speed wireless Internet services , the companies said .
AT&T Wireless will use R520 mobile phones from Sweden 's Ericsson to start up its General Packet Radio Service network , Ericsson said .
Canada 's Nortel will supply a core network infrastructure and Lucent will design and install advanced base stations using the Global System for Mobile Communications standard .
NT
LU
Financial terms were not disclosed .
- - -
Europeans on the Web : The number of European Union households hooked up to the Internet has risen by more than 50 percent in the last six months , according to figures released by the European Commission .
European enterprise commissioner Erkki Liikanen welcomed the increase as a sign of progress towards establishing the EU as " the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world . "
The report said Internet penetration had risen to 28 percent of EU households in October , 2000 , from 18 percent in March .
- - -
Digital TV goings-on : OpenTV , a software maker for digital interactive TV , said it had signed a deal to supply its software to upgrade existing Motorola set-top boxes in Northern California .
The deal is the first time a U.S. cable company has agreed to upgrade existing analog set-top boxes with OpenTV software , instead of buying entirely new interactive boxes .
OPTV
The deployment will begin in the first quarter of 2001 and will offer consumers on-demand news , on-screen television shopping and other interactive services .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Getting Way ' Into ' Broadband

LOS ANGELES -- You 'll find almost anything here at The Western Show , the largest show for cable TV providers -- anything except a dial-up modem , that is .
Give people a fatter pipe and the cable companies will fill it , and they are doing just that .
Into Networks announced more partners have signed on to offer software applications for use over a broadband connection .
Similar to Yummy Interactive , which offers games for trial download for a small fee , Into offers more than 700 applications , from productivity to education to entertainment , for downloadable " rent " on their PC .
For a rental fee , the application is downloaded to the user 's computer , but it does not remain installed on the computer .
The newest licensees are Individual Software , developer of ResumeMaker and other personal productivity software products , Interplay Entertainment , developer of Baldur 's Gate II , Azimuth Interactive , developer of higher education and corporate training software , and World Book .
Excite@Home , which offers broadband services through cable companies like AT&T , Cox Cable and Comcast , announced it would carry Into Networks services .
Set-top liberation : Liberate Technologies , one of the major providers of set-top boxes and back-end servers and services for creating Internet-enhanced content , announced several deals to provide interactive services at the show .
Liberate software will be used in AOLTV , a service from America Online that enables its customers to send instant messages to friends and surf the Internet through their TV .
Customers will also be able to program VCRs from remote locations .
Also , AT&T Broadband and Comcast Cable both announced they would use Liberate technology in their interactive TV services .
Liberate also announced TV Ticker 1.0 , which enables cable operators to offer ticker feeds .
It 's similar to the stock ticker feed seen on CNBC and CNNfn , offering news feeds running across the bottom of the television screen .
The user can then click on a news story they see running along the bottom of the screen .
Redmond pipes in : Not to be outdone , Microsoft made its share of noise at the show as well .
Microsoft and Two Way TV teamed up to bring Two Way TV 's basic and advanced games and services to the Microsoft TV platform .
T
Two Way TV develops " play as you watch " interactive games for enhanced TV that are widely available on TV in England .
These include BBC shows " A Question of Sport " and " Mastermind " plus Channel 4 's " Fifteen to One " and " The Crystal Maze . "
Microsoft struck up three other deals for what it called t-commerce and interactive advertising for Microsoft TV .
television commerce
Its new partners are ACTV , developer of the SpotOn service to deliver highly targeted and interactive TV advertising , eCity , developer of permission-based targeted advertising , where viewers opt in for advertisements according to their interests , and RespondTV , which provides interactive TV content and advertising , so people can get more information on a product that interests them .
Kill your middleman : Cable modem subscribers know what it usually requires to sign up for broadband : the cable wire connects to a large , bulky modem , and from there a network cable goes to a network interface card in their computer .
NIC
Motorola 's Broadband Communications Sector has cut out the middleman with the SURFboard SB4000 internal PCI cable modem .
It will run in any computer with a PCI bus and supports up to 38 Mbps of data transfer speeds , even though cable modems connections are nowhere near that fast .
Motorola also introduced the SURFboard SB4100W wireless cable modem , allowing several computers in the home to share a high-speed connection without running networking cable around the house , as wel as the SURFboard SB4100H Home Phone Networking Alliance cable modem .
HPNA
The SB4100H allows up to 15 users to share a cable modem connection by using the HPNA protocol , which lets PCs network through a standard RJ-11 phone jack .




Wild Worm With Pro-Linux Message

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Yet another new worm is wiggling its wicked way across computer networks .
Written by a cracker who appears to be taking on the role of an avenging pro-Linux penguin , this worm does no real damage to computers .
It 's more likely to wound the psyche of its more delicate victims by displaying text messages calling them " idiots , " and speculating on whether they are smart enough to reverse the worm 's effects .
The worm also suggests that its sufferers should switch to the Linux operating system .
Named " Creative , " the worm has several aliases , including Prolin , Shockwave , W32/Prolin@mm , TROJ_SHOCKWAVE , and TROJ_PROLIN .
The worm was first found on Thursday when computer security firm F-Secure received e-mail notification of Creative 's existence from an anonymous tipster in Germany .
The worm arrives in an e-mail message with a header that says " A great Shockwave flash movie . "
The text of the message recommends that the recipient " Check out this new flash movie that I downloaded just now ...
It 's Great . Bye . "
If the recipient does click on the " CREATIVE.EXE " attachment , the worm file is executed .
It then proceeds to use Microsoft Outlook to send itself to everyone listed in the original recipient 's address book .
It also adds itself to the Windows startup directory , so that it auto-launches when the computer is booted .
After accomplishing all those chores , the worm sends one more message , presumably to its creator , with the subject line " Job complete . "
The text of that message reads " Got yet another idiot . "
But the worm 's job is n't quite complete just yet .
Creative continues to merrily muck around with the contents of the infected hard drive , moving all files with either dot-zip or dot-jpg extension to the root directory of the drive , and appending the following text to the file 's name : change at least now to LINUX .
It also creates a text file " c:messageforu.txt , " that contains the following words of wisdom : " Hi , guess you have got the message .
I have kept a list of files that I have infected under this .
If you are smart enough just reverse back the process .
I could have done far better damage , I could have even completely wiped your hard disk .
Remember this is a warning &#038 ; get it sound and clear ...
-- The Penguin "
" The worm 's pro-Linux message is n't a huge surprise , " said Pirkka Palomaki , director of product marketing at F-Secure . "
Most people who are capable of programming a virus are also Linux fans .
Which is not to say that all Linux users are computer crackers .
" And there is a growing sentiment among many that the prevalence of Microsoft applications is making it easier for attackers to write universal viruses and worms that can spread very quickly , " Palomaki added .
F-secure currently ranks the worm as a low-risk virus .
It is " in the wild , " but since the attachment is clearly marked as an .exe file , savvy computer people will not inadvertently run it .
But since Creative is a worm , it does have the potential to spread quickly if the attachment is executed .
As always , the best defense is a good offense -- practice safe computing .
Do n't click on any cute attachments that happen to show up in your e-mail inbox , no matter what fairytales they claim to contain .
What appears to be Prince Charming may actually be a very angry penguin .




Scientists Stalk AIDS Vaccine

To protect us from disease there is fluoride in our water and iodine in our salt , so why not an AIDS vaccine in our corn ?
A Texas company is attempting to create a vaccine that could be administered as part of your main course .
Researchers at ProdiGene , of College Station , Texas , have received a $ 300,000 grant from the National Institutes of Health to create a vaccine in corn .
First , the researchers need to prove in the lab that corn will express a protein that would trigger immunity against AIDS .
The protein , called GT120 , would cause antibodies against AIDS to develop in mucous membranes that are vulnerable to the virus .
If they can , an edible vaccine could be invaluable for Third World countries where the disease is most prevalent .
Creating a vaccine that could be shipped without requiring refrigeration would help fight AIDS in regions where refrigeration is costly or not available .
" If a vaccine could be eaten that does not need to be refrigerated it would be a big plus , " said Dr. Anne-Valerie Kaninda , medical advisor of Doctors Without Borders .
A vaccine that does not require an injection would also be a plus , Kaninda said , because its administration would not require a medical professional .
Complications from injections would also be eliminated .
Kaninda emphasized that treatment is equally as important as prevention .
" Research on vaccines should continue and needs lots of support , but meanwhile we also need to treat the patients currently infected .
Treatment and prevention should not be mutually exclusive .
We really need to increase efforts in all directions . "
No AIDS vaccines have been approved , to date , by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration .
A company called Cel-Sci , however , hopes to soon begin Phase III trials for a vaccine that could prevent the type of AIDS most prevalent in South Africa .
The so-called transgenic corn would also be cheaper to develop and to mass produce than a traditional vaccine , according to ProdiGene spokesman Dan Hammes .
" Vaccines today are normally produced using cell culture techniques and have to be purified and put into bottles , " Hammes said . "
A lot of cost goes into that .
This is orders of magnitude less expensive than the systems currently used . "




Germany 's < I>Kampf</I> Furor Renews

BERLIN -- News this week that a Munich state prosecutor was investigating allegations that Yahoo Deutschland had sold copies of Mein Kampf could help build momentum in Germany for more sweeping restrictions on such material .
" I 'm disappointed and shocked , " Michel Friedman , a leading spokesman for Germany 's Jewish community , said .
" We believe that the distribution of anti-Semitic , racist and xenophobic literature through Internet services has to be forbidden , " he said . "
The case of Yahoo in France showed us that in the next weeks and months there will be a new view in Europe on that .
There must be a new legal structure in which distribution of hate literature is not allowed .
I believe that this is a global , humanitarian message that hate literature is not distributed . "
An international debate on cross-border Internet purchases was kicked off last week when a French judge issued a ruling saying that Yahoo must find a way to stop people in France from purchasing Nazi materials via online auctions at the site .
Yahoo was given three months to come up with a technical solution to the problem , but in the meantime , the company was expected to appeal .
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers head Vint Cerf , one of the experts called to testify to French judge Jean-Jacques Gomez , told the BBC that the ruling failed to heed the " limitations and risks " of such restrictions .
" Ignored was the observation that if every jurisdiction in the world insisted on some form of filtering for its particular geographic territory , the World Wide Web would stop functioning , " he said .
The German case differs in that it concerns a German company doing business via the Internet in Germany , as opposed to an American company doing business internationally via the Internet .
For Yahoo Deutschland to sell a copy of the book in Germany would be counter to German law .
The German government places severe restrictions on sales of the book and other material that falls under the rubric of " hate literature . "
But contrary to some press accounts , Mein Kampf is not illegal per se in Germany -- what 's illegal is the sort of unrestricted sales that can take place via the Internet .




Ecomafia Dumping on Italy

ROME -- Illicit trafficking in radioactive and other dangerous materials is one of the " ecomafia 's " booming business sectors and is " almost of as much interest " to national and international criminal organizations as the arms and drugs trades , Italian environmental group Legambiente has claimed .
In Europe , 173 cases of illicit trafficking in nuclear and radioactive materials have been reported between 1992 and 1998 , the group said last week .
A spokesperson for the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency confirmed the magnitude of the problem .
The authorities are concerned about radioactive material stolen or abandoned by smugglers or terrorists , as well as industrial or medical radioactive material , nuclear contaminated scrap metal and illegally transported nuclear waste .
According to Legambiente , trafficking in radioactive metals is a particularly serious problem in Italy , Europe 's largest scrap metal importer .
The group last year claimed that Italy was sitting on a " radioactive waste bomb . "
Around 5,000 tons of eastern European radioactive metal waste is finding its way annually to Italy , Legambiente and the Italian paramilitary police 's ecological operating center Nucleo Operativo Ecologico dei Carabinieri said last November in a joint report .
" We 're living amidst 5,000 tons of radioactive metal waste imported each year from Eastern Europe , " said Legambiente president Ermete Realacci .
He said there is an urgent need for better legislation on radioactive refuse .
Most radioactively contaminated scrap is thought to originate in Eastern Europe and countries of the former Soviet Union .
It enters Italy by rail and road and is passed off as safe scrap and mainly purchased by foundries in the north .
Between 1996 and 1998 , over 15,000 tons of radioactive metal was detected at the three main northern Italian border entry points and sent back to their points of origin .
But the evidence suggests this is merely the tip of the iceberg and that far larger quantities of scrap metal " of doubtful provenance " are slipping into Italy undetected , Legambiente warns .
In 1997 , Lombardy 's regional health authority reported the discovery of more than 100 truckloads , about two million tons , of illegally imported radioactive scrap metal in the Province of Brescia alone .
Such materials pose a risk to human health and there are concerns to avoid repetition of a 1998 incident in Spain when a foundry accidentally smelted radioactive material , spreading a plume of caesium-137 across five European countries .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .
Published in cooperation with ENDS Environment Daily .




Health Care From Anywhere

Health care providers are getting wired up for a future where every patient 's medical record is a click away and doctors assist one another in operations thousands of miles apart via video conferencing .
The concept is known as telemedicine , and in its broadest sense , uses communications technology to help deliver medical care regardless of the distance separating the participants .
U.S. legislation is requiring providers to adopt this new standard of medical care in the coming years with security technology in place to protect patient privacy .
Telemedicine is already proving successful .
It played a crucial role in the life of a sailor who injured his hand on a gun mount during a deployment in the Western Pacific region .
Miles away from any land-based hospital , he was transferred from another ship to the USS Abraham Lincoln with the gun mount still implanted in his hand .
X-rays and video of his injury were transmitted to a specialist in San Diego , who consulted the ship 's surgeon in treating the injury .
The sailor returned to light duty three days later .
In a report published by the General Accounting Office , telemedicine is defined as the use of imaging and diagnostic equipment to gather data from a patient , and computer hardware or software to record data using communication lines or satellites to send it from one location to another .
A telemedicine system could be as simple as a computer hookup to a medical reference source or as advanced as robotic surgery .
A comprehensive system would integrate various applications -- clinical health care delivery , management of medical information , education and administrative services -- with a common infrastructure .
The technology behind the telemedicine revolution is provided in part by a joint effort between Advanced Acoustical Concepts Incorporated , a provider of telemedicine technology , and Biodata , a network and communications security firm .
According to Al Ewers , Biodata 's chief sales officer worldwide , the technology they provide allows physicians thousands of miles apart to form " virtual teams that diagnose and treat patients and transfer files over a secure , encrypted network . "
" The ability to encrypt medical communications and build patient trust that the transfer of their medical information through cyberspace will not violate the confidentiality of the doctor-patient relationship is vital if telemedicine is to prosper , " Ewers said .
Security is ensured by Ewers with something Biodata calls BabylonMETA -- a high-speed encryption solution -- that is the " first truly black box encryption available on the market . "
BabylonMETA will be integrated into AAC 's full line of telemedicine products , including the MedRover -- a mobile telemedicine cart used in the remote evaluation and treatment of patients .
" Biodata technology allows us to offer health care providers a means to protect the confidentiality of the patients who need telemedicine services for important and often life-saving consultations , " Dr. Terry Torbeck , vice president of AAC and director of its telemedicine group , said .
Doctors and hospitals alike are forging their futures with telemedicine in mind .
While most health care professionals recognize the benefits of using advanced communication technology and securing records with encryption software , some are concerned that the cost of " paperless " health care and long-range consultation will be a burden their budgets simply can not bear .
" We do want to simplify things for our patients and improve services , but the conversion process to an entirely electronic format will be costly , " said Dr. Alton Brantley , chief information officer for the Washington Hospital Center .
Brantley 's concern stems from the recent decision by the government to finally implement its 1996 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act in October -- the law requiring health care providers large and small to strengthen their IT security regulations .
The HIPAA mandates that organizations protect all electronic health information from improper access or alteration and that health information about individuals be protected during transmission .




Kiwi Tax Unit Grabs Domain Info

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- New Zealand 's tax gathering agency , the Inland Revenue , has acquired the personal details linked to all New Zealand-registered domain names .
The wide legal powers of New Zealand 's tax agency mean New Zealand 's Internet registry , Domainz , has little choice but to hand over the information .
The Inland Revenue says it needs this information in order to figure out what to do about taxing e-commerce .
" What we are trying to ascertain is the actual activities that are carried on mainly in the business area for Internet trading , " Kevin Woodley , a manager at Inland Revenue , told Radio New Zealand . "
To the extent that Internet trading is carried on , then there could be some revenue implications . "
The information Inland Revenue has been given is publicly available on the Domainz website .
However , the website 's search facility allows only individual searches on known domain names .
By making its request to Domainz , the Inland Revenue has the names , addresses , telephone and fax numbers , and e-mail addresses of the 80,000 owners of dot-nz sites .
Inland Revenue 's Woodley tried to downplay privacy concerns , saying the law only allowed the information to be used to administer tax collection .
But even though Domainz complied , its overseeing body , the Internet Society of New Zealand , does n't seem totally comfortable .
" This comes at a time when there are no rules for this , " Peter Dengate Thrush , chair of ISOCNZ , told Radio New Zealand . "
And it comes at the same time as we are concerned about e-mail surveillance , and the development of techniques by authorities to monitor traffic and do all sorts of things . "
Rather than asking for every single domain name in dot-nz , Dengate Thrush suggested a case-by-case approach might be better . "
I 'm not sure it 's incumbent on us as the manager of the registry to provide data on every single person who uses our services , " he said .
However , one analyst argues , neither should people running online businesses think they can avoid paying tax . "
People tend to think that because anything has an ' e ' in front of it , tends to have special rules .
it
All the recent dot-com failures demonstrate that is just not so , " said Patrick Pilcher , research manager for e-commerce analyst IDC New Zealand .
" The whole electric commerce , Internet , e-everything type scenario ; Really , at the end of the day , it 's just another form of conducting business .
Business fundamentals still apply and a key part of business fundamentals is supporting wherever you are trading by paying tax . "
Pilcher does warn that a heavy-handed approach from tax gatherers could encourage business to move away from a tough tax regime . "
Realistically speaking , what they are actually doing , over a long-term view , is cannibalizing any tax income they might get . "
Traditional approaches , in the face of a nimble Internet , will no longer work .
The Inland Revenue needs , Pilcher says , " to work with people like the Internet Society and Peter Dengate Thrush to find a way that 's mutually acceptable to understand how they can tax and how they can get organized taxation happening . "




Cops Could Shoot Lasers

The phasers used by the characters in Star Trek may soon become a real way to fight crime .
HSV Technologies of San Diego , a developer of weapons for police officers and military personnel , just introduced a prototype of a weapon that shoots laser beams to stop criminals in their tracks .
Known either as the " Anti-Personnel Beam Weapon " or " Non-Lethal Tetanizing Beam Weapon , " it releases two ultraviolet laser beams with a wavelength of 193 to 248 nanometers that paralyzes the skeletal muscles of people and animals up to 2 kilometers away .
The laser beams , which sends currents at 10 milliampere and are effective within a few milliseconds after they charge , are strong enough to penetrate clothing but too weak to damage the skin or to be lethal , according to Eric Herr , vice president of HSV Technologies .
Herr says the device has yet to be tested on animals or people , but it is a safer and more efficient way to stop criminals than handguns or " Taser " guns -- which release physically painful darts that can only travel to 20 feet .
" They have n't used our device yet , but they may remember the Rodney King episode , " Herr said . "
law enforcement officials
He was struck repeatedly with darts that did n't subdue him .
Because the Taser causes painful shots ... for some people that angers them .
Our device produces no shock at all , it just immobilizes the person in whatever position they may be in. "
Still , the device has its side effects .
A suspect 's eyes could become irritated if the beams are concentrated on the face for a few minutes .
The device is hefty in both size and price tag .
Herr expects initial units to fetch $ 35,000 .
Law enforcement officials , and perhaps criminals interested in torturing their victims , would probably opt for cheaper handguns .
" There really is n't anything out there , other than a baton and pepper spray , that can halt a dangerous suspect without doing him or anyone else harm , " Herr said . "
There is a huge market for this because there are no alternatives to shooting the person in many cases . "
" It 's a lot better to be simply frozen in position than shot full of holes . "
Dialing Around : Czech Finance Minister Pavel Mertlik said the government will discuss a proposal to auction only one third-generation bandwidth license and to sell three licenses for a fixed price to current mobile operators .
UMTS
The opposition party , however , has pushed to auction all four licenses .
Though streaming video is expected to accompany third-generation bandwidth , Britain 's mobile phone operators said last week that initial 3G services will offer limited video facilities .
Ericsson plans to create a separate Bluetooth company .
Bluetooth is a short radio link that allows wireless devices within 33 feet of each other to communicate .
AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless -- a joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth -- are about to give their customers higher speed services and more roaming capabilities by adding GSM communications capabilities to their U.S. networks .
Global System for Mobile
Deutsche Telekom is reportedly in talks to acquire a stake in Belgian state-owned telcoms carrier Belgacom .
Have a Mobile Xmas : Handspring is shipping more than 25 Springboard modules that can transform its Visor into an MP3 player , a digital camera , a global positioning device , an Internet browser or a calculator .
The modules can be purchased at Handspring 's website or at PalmGear .
UK-based Web usability expert Bunnyfoot plans to release software next week that can be downloaded for free onto a laptop and gives users voice-activated Internet access in the car .
A GSM phone is needed to act as a modem .




Streams of Unconsciousness

SANTA CLARA , California -- If you thought counting votes in West Palm Beach county was tricky , try figuring out how many people are listening to a stream on the Web .
That 's the quandary that ratings services Arbitron , Neilsen/Netratings , and Measurecast discussed at this week 's RadioInk conference .
On the surface , it would seem like a very simple process that could be easily monitored by technology .
After all , every stream has to come from a server -- so to get an accurate reading on how many people tuned in , companies should be able to go back to the server logs to count the number of times a stream was accessed .
The problem comes when trying to break down the demographics of the 33 million users listening to music streams at home .
A stream count will give you the number of people who listened -- but advertisers want to know who those people are .
Measurecast and Neilsen/Netratings both employ a statistical sample of users throughout the United States .
In the same way that television shows are rated based on a random panel of viewers who agree to have their TV-watching habits monitored , these two companies do the same for rich-media viewers .
That data is then mined for demographic information that is extrapolated to the stream count , giving advertisers a picture of the kinds of listeners who are tuning in.
If it sounds a bit imprecise , then you 've been paying attention .
" There is no perfect world , " said Bill Rose , the general manager of Arbitron . "
Even with technology , there will be issues like tracking dynamic IP addresses , and sample sizes just being too small . "
Of course , Arbitron gets around the sample problem because all they do is track streams , making their number count more on target .
Unfortunately , numbers are n't an easy sell to advertisers who are increasingly looking to develop targeted ads .
And without accurate data , businesses do n't get nearly as much revenue when they try to sell advertisements .
" When ad agencies are trying to figure out whether to buy newspaper or broadcast ads , there do n't have a complete picture in front of them , " said Tim Kelly , Neilsen/Netratings ' director of Internet media strategies . "
So they do n't have a budget for . "
this type of spending
- - -
Got radio ? : With a new generation of wireless , portable music devices on their way to the market , iQradio is trying to become the listen.com for the radio industry .
By aggregating information about the types of music that terrestrial radio stations around the country play , and delivering it to cell phones and handheld devices , iQradio wants to become the resource for finding your favorite kind of station no matter where you roam .
It 's a great idea -- so great , in fact , that Broadcast.com developed something similar a few years back .
Of course , iQradio has already licensed their technology to several telecommunications companies , giving them a leg up on much larger Yahoo , which owns Broadcast.com .
- - -
iCast-away : The great iCast plan to have the music labels pay the CMGI company for marketing came to a final , crashing halt this week .
Last month , CMGI announced that streaming-media portal iCast would be shut down on Jan. 31 , 2001 unless a buyer was found .
That date seems to have been moved up , as the company this week closed website operations .
Mounting losses and a lack of partners have sent the company the way of the peaceful warrior .
" Sorry you missed us , " the iCast farewell message reads . "
ICAST Corporation has closed down its website and is in the process of winding down the business .
We sincerely thank our users and partners for their past support , and we hope you 've enjoyed the interactive entertainment content and services we delivered . "
We hardly knew ye .




File-Sharing Goes Hardcore

A " Napster for porn " has been launched by a Swedish company -- but users of the service may risk jail time by swapping smut .
Like Napster , Leechnet is a peer-to-peer system for sharing files .
But instead of trading music , users exchange pictures of people sans clothing .
" Enter the world of Leechnet , " the site says . "
Napster-style file-sharing , but instead of music , Leechnet is about sharing porn !
Nothing else . "
Once installed , Leechnet searches a user 's hard drive for images to share .
The software allows users to search other Net-connected machines for pictures , which are classified according to an elaborate categorization scheme .
Users can search for images of porn stars or amateurs , couples or group sex , and a variety of graphically described positions .
The system is in beta testing and is available in English , Swedish and Japanese .
When Wired News connected on Thursday morning , 800 users were listed online but attempts to access images failed , a common complaint according to messages on the system 's chat forums .
The Leechnet website is registered to Nordic Research , a Web-development company based in Bollebygds , Sweden .
An employee of the company declined to discuss Leechnet over the telephone , saying all press inquiries must be submitted by e-mail .
Wired News ' e-mail questions had not been answered at time of publication .
As with Napster , Leechnet risks lawsuits from porn production companies seeking to prevent copyrighted material from being distributed for free .
But users of the system may also be open to prosecution for violating pornography laws .
The distribution of pornography is subject to numerous international , national and state laws governing child pornography , obscenity and the corruption of minors .
" Music is pretty much accepted by everybody , " said David Wasserman , a copyright attorney with Wasserman & Walters of Winter Park , Florida . "
But porn has a lot of social and legal implications .
I think there 's all kinds of potential for criminal liability . "




' Web ' Band Debut Goes Bust

The Internet just is n't made for " making " bands , after all .
After years of hype surrounding the power of the Internet to level the playing field for independent bands hoping to circumvent the major label regime , the first results are in , and they do n't look promising .
Early sales figures for the debut album True North from Universal/Farmclub.com artist Fisher -- widely considered the first band to get signed , in part , due to its popularity on the Internet -- have been sluggish at best .
First week Soundscan figures , from the late-November release , report that the band has sold only 2892 CDs .
While the figures are small , Fisher band member Ron Wasserman said it 's hardly time to push the panic button .
" Nearly every new act -- I know we do n't seem new to the online folks , but we sure are in the real world -- takes about 4 to 8 months to break , " Wasserman wrote in an e-mail .
He said " Matchbox 20 sold about 500 copies their first week .
Jewel took about 13 months to start selling . "
Of course , those musicians did n't have the hype that Fisher had leading up to their debut albums .
Through sites like MP3.com and Farmclub.com , fans downloaded Fisher 's " I Will Love You " in record numbers .
With over 1 million downloads and 2 million streams , the song 's popularity spread like wildfire across the Web .
Even terrestrial radio stations got involved as San Diego 's STAR 100.7 played the song in regular rotation .
But the folks at Farmclub.com were finally convinced to offer the group a contract when it brought 400,000 e-mail addresses of fans to the label .
Despite hype in the online music industry , IDC analyst Malcolm Maclachlan said the low sales figures should n't be much of a concern .
" I would argue that 2,800 is n't that bad considering no one had heard of these guys before they got lots of MP3.com play , " Maclachlan wrote in an e-mail . "
I think a lot of bands on indie labels would be ecstatic about 2,800 CDs in one week out .
That 's probably 2,800 more CDs than they would have sold without all the online promotion . "
But cannibalization of sales could be the bigger threat looming for bands who make their way into the mainstream through distributing their music digitally .
The fear for the recording industry has been that that digital downloads would eat into the sale of physical CDs .
Or that inaccurate data on the Internet would lead to unrealistic expectations .




Palestinian Crackers Share Bugs

Palestinian supporters are using a combination of hacking tools and viruses to gain what appears to be the upper hand in the Middle Easts ongoing cyber war .
They are distributing the tools and viruses for destroying Israeli sites using a recently created attack site .
Visitors to the site are greeted with the message , " I swear that I will not use these programs on anyone but Jews and Israelis . "
The site comes complete with a list of directions on how to use the attack tools .
LoveLetter , CIH and the Melissa Virus -- along with 12 Word macro viruses -- form the arsenal for attacking Israeli sites .
Apparently , it 's an effective system .
According to sources at iDefense , an international security firm monitoring the situation , pro-Palestinian hackers are using a variety of tools to orchestrate a well-organized attack against the 90 or more Israeli websites which have been hit during the conflict .
Ben Venzke , the director of intelligence production at iDefense , says it is hard to say for sure who is winning .
But he does admit the pro-Palestinian hackers have " successfully impacted more sites . "
" The pro-Palestinians have been much more aggressive in scope , " said Venzke . "
Instead of just targeting specific sites , theyve been methodically working through all the .il sites , broadening their agenda . "
Over 115 websites have been targeted by both sides for denial-of-service attacks , attempts to gain root access , system penetrations , defacements and a variety of other attacks .
Many sites have been indirectly affected , due to the strain that the attacks have placed on the Net infrastructure in the Middle East .
The conflict began on Oct. 6 , when pro-Israeli hackers created a website to host FloodNet attacks .
Since then , both sides have sustained blows to vital-information and financial-resource sites such as the Palestinian National Authority site and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange .
Sixteen tools have been identified as those actively distributed among attackers , with many others being discussed or suspected of already being deployed .
One such tool is called the EvilPing , believed to have been created especially for this war .
The tool launches a " ping of death attack " that , when utilized by several users against the same target , crashes the system .
Then there is QuickFire , an attack tool that sends 32,000 e-mails to the victim from what appears as the same address .
Used simultaneously by multiple attackers , the tool crashes an e-mail server .
QuickFire strength is that it does not relent , continually firing off thousands of e-mails until the server is shut down and the address blocked .
It is believed to be the tool used for hack attacks on the Israeli Foreign Ministry site and its webmasters e-mail address .
A group called Hackers of Israel Unite originally used another popular tool called WinSmurf , which also uses mass pinging to bring down a site .
Borrowing amplifying power from broadcast sites , the hackers send out pings that are boosted 10,000 fold , or more .
According to the group , they were able to shut down Almanar.org using one computer with a 56K modem and an ADSL line .
According to Netscan.org , a site that provides a list of broadcast sites with an average amplification of times five , a dial-up user with 28.8 Kbps of bandwidth , using a combination of broadcast sites with an amplification of 40 , could generate 1152.0 Kbps of traffic , about two-thirds of a T1 link .
" With tools like these , a 56K can become a powerful weapon and your bandwidth irrelevant , " said Venzke .
Netscan.org creators call themselves a " small group of concerned network administrators who got fed up with being smurfed all day . "
But they recognize the fact that their site has become a hacking tool , as well .
Pro-Palestinians recently turned the tables by using broadcast-site attack tools against Israeli sites .
Although the leaders in the war -- groups such as UNITY , dodi and G-Force Pakistan -- remain in the limelight , many previously unknown hackers are taking the cyber war to another level .
According to Venzke , hackers are making moves to gain root access to Israeli computers and servers . "
Root access is the ultimate possession , it means doing whatever you want with a system , " he said .
In essence , a hacker who gains root access control of a computer can scan , delete and add files , use it as an attack tool against others , and even view and hear users whose computers are equipped with cameras and microphones .
With no end in sight to the Middle East cyber war , talk of targeting U.S. interests on the Web has been popping up in chat rooms and IRC channels frequented by pro-Palestinian hackers .
Recent aggression against Lucent.com , coupled with last years hits on cnn.com and other mainstream sites , has many high-profile companies watching their backs for the next wave of attacks .
Hackers like dodi have come out and said that the current war isnt just against Israeli , but the U.S. as well .
But Arab activists such as Mustapha Merza believe the American media continues to portray Arabs as terrorist aggressors , even in cyberspace .
Merza is the webmaster for Arabhackers.org , a meeting place for Arab computer buffs to chat and exchange views .
He says that the media and government are biased against Arabs and openly supportive of Israeli interests .
" The irony of the matter is that the times U.S. government sites were targeted by Israelis are way more numerous than those times they were targeted by pro-Palestinians , " Merza said . "
that
Yet the American media fail to identify its real perpetrators and victimizes the Arabs as usual . "
For its part , the National Infrastructure Protection Center -- a division of the FBI concerned with cyber warfare , threat assessment , warning and investigation -- lists both Israeli and Arab sites that promote the cyber war .




Red Hat Closing S.F. Office

Linux distributor Red Hat Inc. said on Monday that it is laying off off 20 employees and is closing three offices , including its San Francisco office .
The company laid off half the S.F. staff and offered the remaining employees jobs at other locations .
Staffers at the San Francisco office were informed of the layoffs Monday morning , according to Red Hat spokesperson Melissa London . "
Probably about nine or 10 " of " approximately 25 " employees would lose their jobs , she said .
" We 're being asked to vacate right now , " said one employee .
London attributed the layoffs to redundancies created by acquisitions , and said the move has nothing to do with any troubles at Red Hat . "
RHAT
This is not a material event , so to speak , " she said , noting that the layoffs will affect " only 2 percent of 550 people . "
One laid-off employee , who asked that his name not be used , begged to differ . "
They 're closing a whole office .
That seems material to me , " he said .
The rest of the San Francisco staff will be offered positions in the company 's offices in Oakland and Sunnyvale , California .
Most of them planned to refuse those positions , sources said .
Red Hat , which distributes a popular branded version of the free operating system Linux , was only months ago considered the darling of the open source software market -- and a darling of Wall Street .
But its stock has taken a breathtaking fall , dropping from $ 151 to around $ 6 in less than a year .
Red Hat expanded the San Francisco office in July 1999 with the acquisition of Atomic Vision , a Web development company .
The company at the time outlined grand plans for its Web strategy , saying it would be central to its operations .
In the prospectus for its initial public offering , and during its IPO road show that summer , the company told investors that it would use the Web to distribute software , and to offer support , training , services , and content .
It also announced the launch of a news site -- called Wide Open News -- that covered the open source software industry .
But the company shut down the news site after just a few months , laying off several employees .
Although Red Hat continues to use the Web for distribution and support , several sources within the company say that management has continually changed plans or has badly bungled implementation of its online strategy . "
They do n't have a clue what they are doing on the Web , " said the laid-off employee .
Its latest online strategy is centered on the Red Hat Network , a Net-based service that offers subscribers software updates , data storage and support online for a monthly fee . "
They 've de-emphasized the whole ' Redhat.com ' strategy , " said Prakesh Patel , an analyst with W.R. Hambrecht & Co. "
This is very different from the strategy they started with . "
Linux is developed by a loose , worldwide network of programmers , and is freely available .
Red Hat and other Linux vendors make money by offering branded versions of the OS , as well as support and other services .
After Linux generated a certain level of buzz , big companies such as IBM and Hewlett Packard began to latch onto it .
In recent months , some observers have questioned whether pure Linux companies such as Red Hat could succeed in the long term given the entry of such companies , with their firmly entrenched support services , into the market .
" The original idea of making money from a free operating system was dubious from the start , " said a former Red Hat executive who asked not to be identified . "
To make it work , if it could work at all , would have required highly skilled management .
But with the price of the stock going from 151 to about 6 today , it 's clear that the business model is impossible , or that Red Hat 's management is n't up to the task , or both .
Either way , it does n't bode well for Red Hat . "
London said Red Hat management realizes that its business model has come under question , but that " our goal is to answer all those questions . "
Analyst Patel does n't disagree that , at least in terms of enterprise systems , the big computer companies could benefit far more from Linux than Red Hat and other Linux companies will .
But he notes that Red Hat is branching into areas that have much greater potential to produce revenue .
Besides the Red Hat Network , which Patel said could prove highly successful , he noted Red Hat 's entry into the embedded-systems market .
RedHat is licensing Linux distribution to firms such as Hitachi , Ericsson and Motorola for use in handheld devices , mobile phones , and pagers . "
This is a stable revenue stream that 's not going away , Patel said .
Closing the San Francisco office should not be viewed as a harbinger of more bad news for the company , Patel said .
He noted that the company has $ 320 million in cash on hand , that it consistently meets quarterly revenue expectations , and that its gross margins are improving .
The company in September reported a second-quarter loss of $ 1.9 million , or about 1 cent per share .
Revenues were $ 18.5 million , up 76 percent from the year-earlier period .
As for the stock price , Patel said investors are becoming " wary of open source business models in general . "
The stock had been way overvalued , he said , thanks to overly enthusiastic investors who " believed Red Hat was going to overtake Microsoft .
They do n't believe that now . "




Unions Next Dot-Com Revolution ?

Considering the chilly economic times for e-commerce , Friday 's news of layoffs at the consumer electronics site etown.com might have seemed routine : another struggling dot-com sacks employees to stay afloat .
But 13 of the company 's 28 layoffs were in its San Francisco customer service department , where during the past several weeks employees have been engaged in a labor dispute with management .
Last Monday , they filed a petition to hold an election that could , eventually , turn the customer service department into a union shop .
To the employees , then , Friday 's layoffs seemed to be a message from management : If you want a union , get out of etown .
Management denied it was lashing out at union-lovers , saying that the layoffs had been planned in advance and had been determined by employee seniority , not by who wanted a union and who did n't .
Given how few employees it really affects -- about 30 in all -- the etown imbroglio might seem like a fairly trivial matter .
But it 's one of the first efforts to organize at a dot-com company .
Because of that , labor leaders and new economy executives alike are paying attention .
What happens here , some think , might be happening at other companies soon enough .
Lew Brown -- the president and chief operating officer of Collaborative Media , the company that owns etown -- said he did n't think his employees were generally upset with conditions at etown .
He disputed claims of workers who said that they were underpaid and badly treated -- pointing out that etown 's customer service wages of between $ 10.50 and $ 16 per hour were consistent with customer service wages in San Francisco .
But Erin Poh , of the Northern California Media Workers guild , which is trying to organize etown , said that employees ' concerns go beyond pay .
" This is about security , " she said . "
Dot-com employees are realizing that they are just that -- employees .
The honeymoon is over with the idea that you 'd join a company and become a millionaire .
The stock options are dwindling and the reality is that they face the same issues that workers all over face . "
This end-of-the-honeymoon idea seems to be the central thought among labor activists who are trying to organize new economy workers .
Carl Hall , a science reporter at the San Francisco Chronicle and the president of Local 39521 of the Newspaper Guild , said that workers in the digital age have pressing reasons to unionize .
" They 're overworked , underpaid , many have no health benefits and no job security , " he said . "
More power to them if they become millionaires with their options -- but most people do n't become millionaires these days .
And do potential millionaires not have a need to get their kids braces before their options pay off ? "
Hall is currently in negotiations with the Hearst Corporation to unionize workers at the SF Gate , one of the Web 's first daily news sites .
Hearst , which recently purchased the Chronicle and the Gate , seems to have taken a decidedly more cooperative attitude toward unionization than etown did .
Instead of hiring a law firm such as Jackson & Lewis , which the AFL-CIO says is notoriously anti-union , as etown did , Hearst has agreed that Gate workers will be given the option to join the newspaper guild .
All that remains to be negotiated , Hall said , are the details .
Hearst 's accommodation to a union at a dot-com perhaps reflects the fact that it is n't a new economy corporation , and that it has a long history of dealing with organized labor .
But digital-age companies such as etown -- and Amazon , which has also recently had its union troubles -- are in a brave new world when it comes to organization .




The Future : Part Man , Part Beast

Should your parts stop working , and a human transplant is n't available or compatible , doctors may one day turn to animal parts to fix you up .
The American Medical Association on Monday listened to proposed ethical guidelines for animal-to-human organ or cell transplants from its Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs .
Concerns about safety made for a combative discussion .
The committee is recommending , among other things , that human subjects in clinical trials of animal-to-human transplantation -- or xenotransplantation -- be required to waive their traditional right to drop out of the study .
Apparently , this is a tactic that would allow researchers to keep track of people who have undergone the procedures .
" Because of the unknown and essentially unknowable risk of transmission of infectious agents , patients who participate in xenotransplantation clinical trials are going to have to undergo a different kind of consent process than usually has been the case for other kinds of research projects , " said CEJA member Dr. Robert Sade , in an AMA report .
Animal cells have been successfully used to cleanse the blood while patients are waiting for a human transplant , and in other technologies to grow skin to treat severe burn victims .
Treatments using pig cells are also in clinical trials to treat Parkinson 's disease .
But viruses have also been transferred from animals to humans , and critics fear xenotransplantation could introduce dangerous , unknown viruses in humans with no known cures .
Because of this unknown risk , the council begins its report by saying " uncertainty surrounding the magnitude of risk does not justify proceeding with research . "
But the report goes on to recommend guidelines for clinical trials , which one group said is an endorsement to proceed with experiments .
" With the potential it has to wreak havoc on public health , for the AMA to be endorsing a technology like this through the issuing guidelines really flies in the face of the principle of doing no harm , " said Alix Fano , director of the Campaign for Responsible Transplantation .
The CRT believes animal-to-human transplantation should be banned , and is suing the FDA for allegedly withholding information about xenotransplantation clinical trials and for hiding dangers .
" At the very least there should be a moratorium of the technology until the public is consulted and a full evaluation of the risks is really assessed , " Fano said .
She added that it could take 10 years or more before we know if the technology is truly safe .
CRT is an international coalition of physicians , scientists , and 90 public interest groups , including the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine , the International Center for Technology Assessment , the New Mexico Center for Chronic Disorders , the Jane Goodall Institute , and the Earth Island Institute .




Undoing the Mac OS Facelift

Legions of Mac OS X beta testers are revolting against the new interface in Apple 's latest operating system .
Some Apple lovers are so unhappy with Mac OS X 's new look , they 've hacked the OS to make the revolutionary Aqua interface more like the version it 's supposed to replace .
The unfinished Mac OS X is currently undergoing extensive public beta testing in preparation for its oft-delayed launch now scheduled for early next year .
Among the many changes in the new operating system is a complete overhaul of the Mac interface , which -- apart from the introduction of color -- has remained mostly unchanged for 16 years .
Apple purists are n't happy with the radical departure , saying that Microsoft 's Windows looks more like their beloved Mac user interface .
" Working with Mac OS X Beta , I feel slightly as if an old friend had been kidnapped by aliens , " wrote Angus McIntyre in a post to MacInTouch , a popular Mac news site . "
Something has taken over my Macintosh , and I 'm not quite sure what . "
" The most distressing part is feeling like a complete novice again . "
McIntyre said . "
I 've been using and programming Macs for ten years , and now I 'm sitting in front of it going ' What ?
Huh ?
How do I launch an application ?
Where did my icons go ?
' Talk about disorientation . "
To counter this disorientation , many Mac OS X users have hacked the system or installed special utilities that " Macify " the new OS .
Some of the " Macification " hacks available for download include :
Altering the system 's defaults via the command-line interface to put icons representing the Trash Can , local hard drives and CDs back onto the desktop .
In Mac OS X , the Trash Can lives in a " Dock " window , and hard drives and CDs are found in the new Finder window .
Show Drives , a utility from MacPowerUser.com , makes the changes automatically .
Classic Menu brings the much-loved Apple Menu back to Mac OS X.
The utility puts the Apple menu -- the rough equivalent of Window 's Start Menu -- on the top left of the screen and a " Process menu , " which shows currently running applications , on the right .
OpenStrip is an open-source version of the traditional Control Strip , a horizontal menu that displays system and application controls and indicators , like speaker volume or battery status .
The Control Strip had been excised from Mac OS X.
While it 's impossible to know how many people have " Macified " Mac OS X , all the testers contacted for this story reported installing one modification or another , and said the practice was widespread .
Dozens of Web sites have sprung up to document the modifications , including MacOS X Tips , Tricks & Hacks and Project Freedom , which aims to put the " Mac OS into Mac OS X" by providing information about hacks and utilities .
" pretty different and there 's a lot of people who are not willing to make a drastic shift in how they use their computer , " said John Bafford , a long-time Mac user who runs OS X Talk , a clearinghouse for information about the new operating system .
Aqua is




Great Indian IT Jobs : $ 20 a Month

MUMBAI , India -- For a country that every year gives birth to a population the size of Australia , it 's not surprising that India annually produces some 178,000 qualified software engineers .
With information technology providing jobs within its borders and offering the promise of visas to the United States ' greener pastures , India 's quest to produce engineers has taken on an intense , almost revolutionary , fervor .
But the craze is n't without its casualties .
What the euphoria hides is a rather bleak future of thousands of young students who hail from poor families .
Lured by IT and sucked in by peer pressure , these students are paying high tuition for inadequate computer training that too often leaves them short of being qualified engineers .
The upshot is that for many , the dream of upward mobility is more like a nightmare .
Sindhu Nair 's story illustrates the plight .
Nair 's father owns a small shop in Mumbai .
Although he earns about US$ 250 every month , he had great dreams for his 22-year-old daughter Sindhu .
After reading countless articles in the papers , he was sold on the great IT revolution .
He borrowed money and paid about US$ 700 for a six-month animation course .
Nair completed the course , but spent another eight months looking for employment before finally landing a job in the field that pays $ 20 per month .
Her situation is similar to that of Srinath Shripati .
Shripati , 21 , completed a course in multimedia that cost about $ 700 .
He parlayed that training into a job with a small company called Interactive Realities that pays him $ 17 a month .
Clearly , many Indians find success .
But that 's where the economic disparity often comes into play .
Students who can afford two-year programming courses have better chances of finding jobs today in India .
Those who are forced to settle for cheaper and shorter courses often wind up among a heap of semi-qualified applicants in an ever-growing glut of job seekers .
The dot-com crash in India , which has seen many sites go under and big players downsize , has further affected the job market for low-level computer professionals .
The National Association of Software and Service Companies has boasted that there will be 2.2 million jobs for software professionals by 2008 .
Whether that prediction becomes reality is yet to be seen .
The promise , though , remains .
" I am confident that I will earn more later , " says a hopeful Shripati .
His boss , Prasad Ajgaonkar , is n't so optimistic .
" If I have 10 vacancies , I get some 30 applications , " Ajgaonkar said . "
And I do n't have to pay more than Rs.750 to a fresh programmer or a guy who has done a cheap course in multimedia from a small institute .
US$ 17
I know he is unlikely to get more elsewhere .
" While I agree there is a lot of demand for software engineers , guys who have done short-term courses in various Web and multimedia applications are going to find it very tough because there are so many of them out there . "
And many of them , Ajgaonkar believes , are there for the wrong reasons .
" Most of these guys have done the courses , not because they are interested , but because they think they can find a good job , " Ajgaonkar said . "
So you see most of them do n't have real talent which makes their condition much worse . "
Yogita Kamat , a former technology instructor , says the IT craze has permeated the culture .
Kamat says it 's an outgrowth of " the doctor-engineer syndrome " in India .
Until IT took over , every parent wanted the child to grow up and become either a doctor or an engineer .
So great minds in music , literature and dance were lost to these two professions that were deemed to be lucrative .
" The same thing is happening with IT now , " she said .




Bluetooth 's Grin Gets Old

When Intel , Toshiba , Nokia , Ericsson and IBM decided to develop a short radio link called Bluetooth , media and telecom analysts hailed the wireless technology 's promises .
Named for the Viking king who united Denmark and Norway in the 10th century , Bluetooth allows devices to talk to each other wirelessly .
The possibilities for communication are endless .
You could purchase a Coke from a soda machine merely by pointing your cell phone .
Or the soda machine might actually remind you that you 're thirsty and need a drink .
Or you could have your car radio read you your e-mail messages .
The killer app ?
Who knew ?
But it was coming .
Two-and-a-half years after five bigwig companies formed what is today the Bluetooth Special Interest Group , there are over 2,000 member companies developing Bluetooth products .
But currently , only IBM and Toshiba PC cards are available on the market .
And the applications ?
Well , so far they 're limited .
" There 's been a lot of hype , " said Brent A. Miller , senior software engineer in the Pervasive Computing Division at IBM and author of the recently released Bluetooth Revealed . "
I believe the killer app is getting the simple things right initially -- wireless file transfers , electronic business card exchanges -- ensure those things work together .
The elimination of wires has value for people today . "
Miller , who will be one of 3,000 guests to mill about the San Jose Convention Center this week for the first-ever Silicon Valley Bluetooth Developers Conference , echoed other industry members as to why the much-heralded Bluetooth chip is not embedded in more devices .
The industry points out the arduous process companies undergo to ensure their devices are compatible with one another and receive certification from the Bluetooth Special Interest Group .
Members of the Bluetooth SIG also say government regulation and steep Bluetooth silicon prices have delayed the shipping of Bluetooth products .
" the interoperability challenges is trying to determine what sort of tests are needed to be developed and passed , " Miller said . "
Among
You do n't expect wireless headsets to operate with a digital camera though they are both Bluetooth devices .
" But you do want ... the headset to be interoperable with mobile phones . "
Bluetooth Revealed , which is available on Amazon.com and at most major book stores , is based on the 1,500-page " specification " Bluetooth SIG members must meet to receive certification .
The SIG also holds many " unplugfests " -- or confidential meetings in which members of the consortium take in their products , often wrapped in a bag so as not to reveal the content to competitors , and make sure they are interoperable with one another .
" In the '90s when we were talking to Nokia and Ericsson , they all had the similar goal of connecting devices , " said Intel spokeswoman Shannon Johnson . "
In order for this to work it 's going to take ... a specification we all agree to , and sure the technology speaks the same language . "
making




Cantwell Leave Tech Alone ?

SEATTLE -- Without any of the courtroom drama or street-side protests that have marked the presidential ballot recount in Florida , America 's other interminable election finally concluded late last Friday .
Maria Cantwell -- the 41-year-old dot-com mega-millionaire who financed her upstart campaign for U.S. Senate against three-term incumbent Slade Gorton -- was declared the winner in the closest statewide race in Washington 's history .
The Democrat 's victory was significant , perhaps more than anything because it gives the Senate a 50-50 split between Democrats and Republicans .
What influence she 'll wield in terms of the future of technology legislation is unclear .
Cantwell is closely associated with the Internet and technology industry that has fueled Seattle 's financial renaissance , and she carried the tech-heavy Seattle area .
However , during the campaign , Gorton blasted her for not supporting Microsoft as strongly as he did in the company 's antitrust battle with the federal government .
Gorton led the charge on Capitol Hill against the Department of Justice 's antitrust suit .
Cantwell has said she would seek a seat on the commerce committee , where her expertise in so-called new-economy issues ostensibly will be put to good use .
What that means specifically will be determined .
Cantwell was one of the first hires at streaming media pioneer RealNetworks , riding the company 's success over the last several years to become a senior vice president and a multi-millionaire before taking a leave-of-absence early this year .
That said , the former state legislator and one-term congresswoman did n't campaign on new-technology issues .
Mostly , she campaigned on the themes of campaign finance reform and the need for new blood .
" I will be a senator for all of Washington , " Cantwell said after the official tally was announced .
Cantwell carried just five of the state 's 39 counties , but won decisively in the Puget Sound area .
Joe Cerrell , a spokesman for RealNetworks , said the company is clearly happy for its former executive .
" We think Maria will be an effective and an outspoken advocate in Congress for the technology industry as a whole , but in general as well ... representing the state of Washington , " he said .
Cerrell said he had no independent information on the senator-elect 's future relationship with the company .
What 's clear is that the money she earned at RealNetworks and used to finance her campaign played a major role in her victory .
Shortly after the state 's September primary , a close Gorton aide acknowledged that Cantwell 's deep pockets were a major concern for the incumbent .
" We 're scared to death , " said Cynthia Berger , who had left her post as Gorton 's press secretary to head his re-election campaign communications unit .
Berger went on to deride Cantwell as " the poster child " for dot-com millionaires who run for Congress because they " need a hobby . "




MP3.com Lets Streams Flow

MP3.com re-opened its streaming music service on Tuesday after settling its year-long battle with the recording industry and agreeing on a licensing structure to compensate the labels and publishers .
The new service has two-tiers : a free , limited service which allows consumers to store 25 CDs , and a subscription service that holds 500 CDs .
Both services include banner ads , although the $ 49.95 annual subscription fee service has less intrusive pitches .
MP3.com had halted access to the my.mp3.com service on May 10 after legal action was taken by the major-label music industry .
Users who sign up for the my.mp3.com service can stream music from MP3.com 's database to Internet-enabled devices .
Consumers who purchase music from MP3.com 's online retail partners can also have their music automatically added to their lockers without the CD being counted toward their limit .
" This is a great day for music fans , " MP3.com president Robin Richards said , in a written release . "
It 's also terrific for artists and labels who stand to benefit from potential new revenues .
We believe that the service will stimulate CD sales and generate enthusiastic activity from our users . "
Those revenues will come primarily from the streaming fees that MP3.com agreed to pay as part of a settlement it signed with the labels and publishers .
Along with hefty awards for past infringements that ranged between $ 20 and $ 57 million dollars per major label , the digital music company must pay per-stream fees each time listeners access music from their lockers .
The labels will receive 1.5 cents each time a song is stored in a virtual lockers , and the publishers will get an undisclosed , one-time storage fee .
Each time a consumer accesses a stream from their account , the labels receive one-third of a cent each and the publishers expect to garner a quarter-of-a-cent charge .
The licensing fees could prove to be a hefty burden for MP3.com and its competitors , who must pay similar charges as they try to develop viable locker services .
" They are going to have to wrap other services around the model , " said IDC analyst Malcolm Maclachlan . "
You have to provide very personalized services to people so that the music becomes portable , and then people would be willing to pay for that service . "
MP3.com has the benefit of first-mover status -- for now .
As Richards pointed out , " There 's not another service out there that is comparable to my.mp3.com . "
That might not hold true much longer as several competitors are expected to ramp up or launch their streaming locker services very soon .
" I think there are enough businesses that are entering the space that it was important for them to launch as soon as possible to sign up users , " said Maclachlan . "
MP3.com 's money is already spent , so they have no reason not to launch .
Other companies like Musicbank start losing money when they launch because they are n't going to be profitable right away . "
Musicbank has investments from the major labels and has been working with the National Music Publishers Association to secure its licensing .
The streaming service is expected to launch before the end of the year .
Myplay.com was the first locker service when it launched in October 1999 , but has slowly been acquiring users .
Myplay.com avoided the legal issues by requiring users to upload their own music into a personal locker .
Unlike its competitors , however , Myplay.com 's service requires users to spend several minutes uploading each CD .
Sony also plans to unveil its Unsurface digital media service later this year .
The service will link Sony customers to online repositories that can include music , movies , videos , photographs , and video games from a variety of devices .
The Recording Industry Association of America won its copyright infringement suit against MP3.com in April .
In that suit , U.S. District Court Judge Jed Rakoff ruled that the digital music company 's creation of a database of 45,000 CDs infringed on the major labels ' copyrights .
MP3.com spent the next seven months settling with the five major music labels and the publishing industry in order to re-establish the my.mp3.com service .




Son-in-Law Wanted : Geeks Apply

MUMBAI , India and SAN FRANCISCO -- In India , love and longing are chiefly resolved by a concept called arranged marriage .
And a large number of families subscribe to the reasoning that if their daughter has to marry a stranger , let her future husband be an IT professional working in the United States .
Purushotam Narang , a marriage broker in Mumbai , explains this phenomenon with an Indian joke . "
Definition of heaven : American salary , Indian wife , Chinese food and British accommodation .
Definition of hell : American wife , British food , Chinese accommodation and Indian salary . "
So where does a family go when searching for a suitor ?
The Web , of course .
Matrimonial websites are the cyber version of the traditional " seeking bride/groom " Sunday section found in any Indian newspaper .
While the newspaper classifieds are still thriving , it is estimated that there are over 1,000 such websites with over half a million listings .
" I saw that a lot of my South Asian friends were having trouble meeting people with whom they could have serious relationships .
I started the website to help them out and it has grown since , " said Rajiv Giri , founder of Indianmarriages.com .
Some sites like A1 Indian Matrimonials and INDOlink matrimonials are free and require just a registration , while others like Jeevansathi.com charge a monthly fee to enable contact with a potential amour .
" The matrimonials are a huge business , " said Paul Singh who runs Sikhnet Matrimonials out of New Mexico . "
More and more people definitely want to use this .
It is not a dating service and this not a mail-order bride service . "
So , when Ninad Vengurlekar , of Mumbai , began the husband-search for his sister , he chose matrimonial websites over advertising in the newspaper .
After all , if you want to find Net-savvy men , it 's a good idea to search for them on the Net .
" To my pleasant surprise , 80 percent of the queries I got were from Indian boys in the American IT industry , " said Vengurlekar , who said he gets about 20 queries every month .
That does n't mean the tech industry is overflowing with romance .
The lure is more practical .
Frankly , if tomorrow chemical engineers are earning more than IT people , then the focus will shift , Narang said . "
So the loyalty of the woman 's parents is not to information technology but who is earning more .
And currently IT men are hot property . "
Dhanesh Joshi , 29 , is beginning to realize this .
He is a software engineer with Veritas Software in California .
He has come to Mumbai for a month to " find a girl and get married to her . "
In the first week alone , he met four women , spoke to more and examined several horoscopes .
" People here are very eager to get their girls married to a software engineer working in the United States , " Joshi said . "
There is no dearth of proposals .
I am going through them carefully . "
But there is one small problem .
He wants to return to India in around four years .
That alone can be a deal-breaker .
" I come clean about it to the girl 's parents .
I tell them that I want to return to India in the near future , " Joshi said . "
Some parents get disappointed and I do not hear from them again . "




Bluetooth 's Popularity Contest

SAN JOSE -- It 's conventional wisdom in the wireless technology industry that Americans lag behind Europeans and Asians in cell phone adoption and usage of the " wireless Web . "
To the chagrin of wireless evangelists , this trend will repeat itself in the rate at which North Americans adopt Bluetooth -- a much-heralded wireless technology that allows devices within 30 feet of each other to communicate .
Three bigwig phone manufacturers -- Motorola , Nokia and Ericsson -- introduced at the Bluetooth Developers Conference in the San Jose Convention Center this week their first Bluetooth-enabled phones and wireless accessories .
Most are to be shipped early next year .
Players in the industry say Bluetooth chips will initially be embedded in portable devices such as laptops and mobile phones .
Larger devices such as car dashboards and household appliances will be Bluetooth-enabled in a few years .
But Nokia and Ericsson 's Bluetooth products are for their Global System for Mobile Communications phones , not compatible with the more popular Code-Division Multiple Access and Time Division Multiple Access infrastructures and phones in the Americas .
Both GSM and TDMA are network standards that use the same frequency to transmit data , while CDMA uses multiple frequencies .
Users of certain cell phones will receive error messages if their service provider does not offer its services on the same network as the cell phone .
A Nokia spokesman could n't say when the " Nokia Connectivity Pack " -- a battery with a Bluetooth chip for the Nokia model 6210 phone , a connectivity card and PC card adapter -- would even reach the American market .
The Pack , which allows consumers to use their 6210 phones as GSM modems to connect to laptops -- is expected to be available to Europeans and Asians in the first quarter of next year .
" Please note that there are huge differences in market maturity , " said Waldemas Sakalus , general manager for applications business management at Nokia . "
Europe has been more advanced than the United States . "
Sakalus ' hailing of Nokia as a Bluetooth market leader was immediately rebuffed by competitors .
" This is the very first thing they 've announced , " said R.E. Skip Bryan , director of technology market development for the American Standards Business unit of Ericsson . "
I 'm puzzled by what they are going to do .
You are the first to tell me they 've announced those . "
products




Forever Amigos with Amiga

The Amiga faithful struggling to keep their antiquated systems running and former Amigans who are now stuck with PCs , can savor their lost love with the newest version of emulator software Amiga Forever .
Amiga Forever 4.0 , released last week , is the latest update to an emulation technology for PC and Macintosh hardware that fully simulates the beloved Amiga environment .
For PC owners clamoring to keep the platform alive , Amiga Forever is a chance to stick with their favorite environment , said Michael Battilana , CEO of Cloanto , in Las Vegas , Nevada .
Amiga Forever 4.0 is primarily a cosmetic upgrade that mirrors some of the design changes that were put into Amiga 's latest OS upgrade , version 3.9 , which was released earlier this year .
The emulator has adopted the GlowIcons and some other " look and feel " elements of version 3.9 .
The software also includes Amiga Explorer 4.0 , a combined Amiga-to-PC connectivity and disk utility , plus more than 20 new tools , and a 20-percent speed improvement , according to Battilana .
Users who like to relive history can change Amiga Forever to operate like all of the previous Amiga OS versions , from the original 1.x OS releases right up to the latest version .
Although Amiga Forever will n't work with software that requires Amiga-specific hardware , such as the Video Toaster , developer Cloanto said it can run most other Amiga programs .
The software can be run in Motorola 68000 , 68020 or 68030 emulation modes since some applications break on the different chips .
The user can also control how much memory is allocated to the emulator , since applications can crash when using too much or too little memory .




Apple 's Sales Below Expectations

Apple on Wednesday announced it has experienced significantly slower-than-expected sales during October and November , which will result in revenues and earnings being substantially below expectations for its quarter ending Dec. 30 .
AAPL
The company expects to report revenue of about $ 1 billion and a net loss , excluding investment gains , of between $ 225 million and $ 250 million , when actual results are announced on January 17 , 2001 .
- - -
Drkoop struggling , but determined : Drkoop.com , the embattled health website co-founded by former U.S. Surgeon General C. Everett Koop , said the NASDAQ market notified the firm its shares have been trading below the minimum bid price of $ 1 for 30 trading days .
The company posted a wider-than-expected third-quarter loss and named a new management team in October , and cut 33 percent of its work force in August .
The company plans to call a special stockholder meeting to vote on a reverse stock split in order to " demonstrate compliance with the rule to maintain its NASDAQ listing . "
- - -
Opera software released : Opera Software unleashed Opera 5.0 for Windows , making its Web browser available for free .
Opera has long been known has " the third browser " on Windows , with around 1.5 million users .
Opera will be distributed on millions of CDs accompanying computer magazines around the world , as well as by other software makers and on certain Web sites .
- - -
DoubleClick cuts staff : DoubleClick , the nation 's largest Internet advertising agency , cut more than 120 employees from its work force this week .
DCLK
The New York-based company is the third Internet ad agency to announce lay-offs in recent months .
The company said the cuts claimed less than 10 percent of its 2,104-person work force .
- - -
Amazon offers special delivery : Amazon announced that selected items can be ordered as late as Dec. 23 and still arrive by Christmas Day .
AMZN
To help communicate the overnight holiday delivery options to customers , a television advertising campaign featuring Amazon and the U.S. Postal Service began airing nationwide on Monday and will continue through Dec. 22 .
- - -
AltaVista ends free internet access : AltaVista is ending its free Internet access service for 3 million subscribers .
1 stUp , the affiliate company that provides the service , is going out of business .
Wired News wire services contributed to this report .




A Wireless Doctor Is in the House

As the Internet changes the face of health care , allowing consumers access to more medical information than ever , it 's also changing the way patients interact with their physicians , and how health insurance is being packaged .
Add into the equation the influence that wireless tools and technologies have on how doctors receive information , and it becomes clear that health care will sport a radical new look in the not-too-distant future .
All those trends were evident at the eHealthcareWorld conference this week in New York .
And all of them were tempered by concerns about privacy .
One popular concept is Internet-enabled patient call centers .
Such centers will " provide patients with diverse communications vehicles , " said Victor Otley , president and CEO of Intellicare , a South Portland , Maine , vendor that provides technologies for the centers .
Patients using online call centers will be able to communicate with doctors and other care providers via voice-over Internet protocol , e-mail , secure chat , collaborative Web browsing and , of course , the telephone .
And a skill-based routing system knows what types of questions need to go to a live agent .
For instance , if a person sends a message requesting an appointment , the system will automatically send it to the person handling appointments .
Dr. Daniel Sands , clinical director of electronic patient records and communication for CareGroup HealthCare System and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center , is a proponent of what he calls ePatient Centered Communications , or ePCC .
Sands uses a system called PatientSite , a Web-based communications program that integrates into his patients ' records .
It allows patients to view and even annotate their own records , with the doctor 's permission , including X-rays and lab results .
The system archives e-mail messages , whis is an important feature , said Sands during a seminar on ePCC systems -- because it gives doctors and patients a " paper trail " of messages sent back and forth .
PatientSite also uses intelligent routing to send clinical messages to the doctor , prescription-refill requests to prescription nurses , and appointment requests to the administrative staff .
The Internet will drive consumer-choice health care , according to Dr. Regina Herzlinger , author of Market-Driven Health Care and a business administration professor at Harvard Business School .
Herzlinger told a keynote audience that , just as the Internet 's " control , choice and cost-effectiveness " spurred growth in the financial services industry on the Web , so it will be with " consumer-choice health care , " an insurance system that lets consumers select services from a large menu of choices using money provided specifically for health care by their employers .
Where employees generally have between one and three choices for insurance now , their options will soon include items such as amount of coverage , types of benefits , provider composition and length of contract .
In addition , the Internet will spur " performance ratings of insurers , a flow of personalized information and health care guides , " Herzlinger said .
Wireless technologies and handhelds are also sending health care into new terrain .
Charlottesville , Virginia-based Unbound Medicine , for example , offers a Palm-based knowledge-management product that helps physicians answer patient questions on the spot .




Do You Know Where Your Kids Are ?

BERLIN -- To many parents , it may be a dream : A little gadget that can track where a child is at all times .
To many kids , it may a fun thing : Their own cell phone , complete with a backpack shaped like a stuffed animal to house the global positioning technology that makes it all happen .
That at least is the vision of Susanne Mueller-Zantop , under whose guidance Siemens has developed a child 's mobile phone with stepped-up monitoring capability .
" I want us to apply technology in a smart way to have kids participate in what we enjoy about mobile life , " she said . "
We do n't want parents to force the devices on their kids .
We want kids to happily carry them with them .
That 's why I talk a lot about fun .
It must be playful . "
Tests begin this month in Germany , where 50 families have agreed to take part , and the service is scheduled to debut in Germany and Great Britain next spring .
Expected to cost between $ 100 and $ 200 for the hardware , and less than $ 20 a month for the service , the devices are intended for children between the ages of 3 and 11 .
It may be appropriate that the first tests are in the Munich area , although Siemens also plans to offer the service in Hamburg and Berlin .
West Germans have traditionally had more access to technology than their counterparts in the former East , some of whom are used to seeing high-tech monitoring devices as something to be feared .
" There is a little feeling of ' Big Brother is watching , ' " said Maxim Leo , a 30-year-old lifelong East Berliner . "
In the Eastern times , until '89 , it was n't necessary to have such electronic control of things , because there was a wall and the child could n't go very far . "
But Leo , father of a 6-month-old baby girl , thinks that the new idea from Siemens could have practical applications .
" I think for older children , around 10 or 11 years old , it could be a good thing .
I heard about children who go into discos at a very young age .
If you have the possibility to know where your child is , it could be a good thing .
But for very young children , I do n't know if it 's really a good solution . "
Mueller-Zantop , mother of a 10-year-old boy , said her inspiration in developing the project started out being personal .
" I once had a terrible day because there was that Swissair plane crash and I had evidence that my son was on that plane , but I could n't reach him , " she said . "
That was the worst day of my life .
He was n't on the plane , but it was terrifying until I was able to talk to him . "
How does it work ?
Every 15 minutes , the child 's phone communicates exact coordinates to a call center .
Parents can phone into the call center to get information about their children 's whereabouts .
A child can hit a button , providing instant location information to the call center which , in emergencies , can listen in on whatever the child 's handset is picking up .




Music to Bluetooth 's Ears ?

SAN JOSE , California -- It 's the wireless version of Napster .
Imagine being able to swap music files with a friend by using MP3 players embedded with Bluetooth chips -- a wireless radio link that allows devices within 30 feet of each other to interact .
No company present at this week 's Bluetooth Developers Conference in San Jose announced it would release MP3 players with embedded Bluetooth wireless technology .
But in what may be another thorn in the side of the recording industry , a company from Ireland demonstrated a precursor to what may become the next rage in wireless technology .
Parthus Technologies , which develops and licenses software to power mobile devices , led numerous journalists to a suite displaying its MP3 and Bluetooth platforms .
The demonstration consisted of two laptops that streamed MP3 files through a 24-bit digital signal processing circuit -- or a wireless communications filter -- into a box with a couple speakers that represented MP3 players .
" One of the scenarios we 're looking at is kids with MP3 players with Bluetooth can swap tracks with each other , " said Bob Tait , senior product marketing manager for the Bluetooth wireless business unit of Parthus Technologies .
" Yeah , the music industry is n't going to like that . "
Indeed , cords will n't be in the way of the Recording Industry Association of America fighting wireless file swapping .
" The recording industry has been working on many different delivery systems so consumers can enjoy music when they want it and how they want it , " said Amy Weiss , RIAA senior vice president for communications . "
But whether music is on-line or off-line , wireless or wired , it is important that intellectual property and copyright is protected . "
Wired News was unable to reach Bertelsmann for comment .
Bertelsmann , after months of legal tangling with Napster , is now working with the online music file exchanger .
Still , many exhibitors milling about in the San Jose Convention Center expect to see , toward the end of 2001 , " multi-point access " Bluetooth devices such as the MP3 player , which can send data to up to seven other devices .
Many multi-point access products are still undergoing testing for " master-slave switching " -- to make sure that certain devices are the ones sending information to the other intended devices .
Initially , single point products , such as Bluetooth-enabled wireless headsets and mobile phones , will be offered to consumers .
" There 's more complexity " in single point to multi-point access , said Frank Hennekens , a manager of key accounts and licensing for Ericsson 's Bluetooth division .




FBI Hacks Alleged Mobster

WASHINGTON -- Nicodemo S. Scarfo , the son of Philadelphia 's former mob boss , was almost paranoid enough .
Scarfo , who has been charged with masterminding a mob-linked loan sharking operation in New Jersey , reportedly used the popular PGP encryption software to shield his computer 's secrets from prying eyes .
But when the feds learned of Scarfo 's security measures , they decided to do something that would bypass even the best encryption software : FBI agents sneaked into Scarfo 's office in Belleville , New Jersey , on May 10 , 1999 , and installed a keyboard-sniffing device to record his password when he typed it in.
A seven-page court order authorized the FBI and cooperating local police to break into Scarfo 's first-floor " Merchant Services of Essex County " office as many times as necessary to deploy , maintain , and then remove " recovery methods which will capture the necessary key-related information and encrypted files . "
The case , which is awaiting trial , appears to be the first in which the U.S. government used such aggressive surveillance techniques during an investigation , and some legal observers say the FBI 's breaking-and-entering procedures go too far .
" I do n't think it 's constitutional , " says David Sobel , general counsel of the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington , D.C. " This case has the potential to establish some very important precedents on this issue . "
Scarfo 's prosecution comes at a time when the FBI 's Carnivore surveillance system is under increasingly heavy fire from privacy groups , and the use of data-scrambling encryption products appears to be growing .
Last week , for instance , news leaked out about Yahoo 's encrypted Web-based e-mail service it introduced through a deal with Zixit , a Dallas firm .
Scarfo has been charged with supervising " an illegal gambling business " in violation of state and federal law and using extortionate loan shark tactics , according to a three-count indictment filed in federal court in June 2000 .
He has pleaded not guilty .
" There 's nothing that we can talk about or are at liberty to talk about in the case , " says Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney 's office for the District of New Jersey .
Drewniak would not comment on the use of encryption , saying " we do not discuss evidence . "




Books , Cooks and Marketing Hooks

Whats cooking at Random House ?
Going right to the readers of the cookbooks they publish , Random House is offering an online " Ask the Expert " section .
Readers can ask popular cookbook editors questions , or browse through a list of questions that have already been answered .
The publisher hopes the Q&A section will help increase sales volume as well as strengthen brand recognition with online book buyers .
" Historically , publishers have been dependent on retailers to communicate with consumers .
The Internet allows publishers to bridge that gap , " said Terrance Cheng , director of corporate website marketing for Random House .
The software , created by Broad Daylight , allows a company to be " self-service enabled , " while saving on expensive call centers and help desks .
And since the Q&A is immediately published to the companys website , other customers can benefit as well .
It used to take a hundred phone calls to answer a hundred identical questions about oven time for the turkey ; now all frantic cooks have to do is call up the site .
Broad Daylight will adapt its software to a number of areas , including business books , reading groups and the academic market .
" Down the line this technology could also be used to help authors communicate directly with their readers , thus developing community and fan-base efficiently , " Cheng said .
- - -
What 's in an author 's name.com ? : The Authors Guild has filed a compliant on behalf of nine authors -- including R. L. Stine , Joanna Lindsey , Elizabeth Strout , Susan Elizabeth Phillips and Billie Letts -- to get back their dot-com names from the British firm , Old Barn Studios .
Adam Cohen , an intellectual property attorney with the New York City firm Kane Kessler , P.C. , makes the case that an author has common law trademark rights in his or her name by virtue of international reputation .
And that Old Barn Studios does not have proprietary rights to those names .
" Each of these authors names has come to be recognized by the relevant public as indicating a source of the literary and other works of the authors , " said Cohen .
Even without a registered trademark , he explained , these names have acquired distinctiveness and function as common law trademarks .
Since Old Barn , Cohen said , has no proprietary interest in the domain names and registered them in " bad faith " as defined by ICANN , the company must transfer those domain names back to their rightful owners .
" For authors , whose names and reputations are their most valued stock-in-trade , bringing this proceeding was absolutely necessary , " said Letty Cottin Pogrebin , president of the Authors Guild .
According to the Guild , many administrative panels that have resolved claims brought pursuant to the ICANN policy have ruled that an individuals can have common law trademark rights in their names even without having registered the trademark .
In one such case , author Jeanette Winterson won her domain name back from British scholar Mark Hogarth .
Last year , Hogarth registered the dot-com , dot-org and dot-net names of 130 well-known authors -- including nine of the plaintiffs in this Guild suit -- and then allegedly attempted to sell them to the authors for a portion of their royalty earnings .
According to the Guild , Hogarth has now transferred all of the dot-com authors ' domain names to Old Barn Studios .
But he still owns the dot-org and dot-net names .
- - -
And whats in a name change ? : Reflecting a change in what it perceives as the markets needs , SoftLock.com has renamed itself Digital Goods .
It has partnered with DRM giant , Reciprocal , and is offering up a suite of interactive marketing services .
These tools include an affiliate retailer network with thousands of online partners , a customized search engine registration capability that leverages major search portals and the ability to embed offers for specific relevant content in news feeds and other website content .
For example , you might be reading this article and receive , in real time , an offer to purchase specific publishing analysis reports from content provider Dun & Bradstreet .
" Our goal is to help publishers unleash the value of their content by providing the next-generation tools and services needed to deliver rights-protected multimedia content to a maximum audience of consumers , " said Scott Griffith , chairman and chief executive officer of Digital Goods .
Digital Goods is also promoting viral marketing through its Passalong technology -- a patented system that turns friend-to-friend content sharing into a sales channel .
Recently one of the most intriguing examples of viral marketing bypassed digital management rights , offering an unencrypted e-book .
Seth Godin offered the entire text of his book , Unleashing the IdeaVirus free online .
Over 250,000 people downloaded the book and passed it on to a total of at least 600,000 .
His idea was to spread the word by sending the book for free online in the hopes that people would want to buy the hardcover copy .
It worked , leading to sales of almost 30,000 copies of the $ 40 hardcover version .
But whether viral marketing of e-books for the expressed purpose of selling e-books will work is another matter .
Godin does n't believe that charging for content on the Web will work .
He sees the whole e-book phenomenom as a way to market something else , something other than the e-book itself .
" Digital content wants to be free and people just wont pay for it , no matter how hard you get them to try , " Godin said .
- - -
Everyones an e-book publisher : Bookzone.com , one of the largest portals and website developers for independent publishers , has developed a payment , delivery and reporting component called the eBookZone EDGE ePublishing System .
Basically , it allows any company to have a branded e-publishing business on its own site .
Mary Westheimer , president of Bookzone.com , is launching the service with several clients , including the Independent Publishers Group , Specialty Books -- which provides books to 58 online universities -- and the Audio Publishers Association .
M.J. Rose has a new novel and a book about e-publishing comingout this winter .
www.mjrose.com




100,000 Kid Scooters Recalled

Nearly 100,000 of the newly ubiquitous scooters plying U.S. streets are being voluntarily recalled because of handlebar glitches that can cause riders to lose control , the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said .
Kent International , of Parsippany , New Jersey , is recalling 90,000 scooters .
On its Kickin ' Mini Scooter model , steering bars can unexpectedly pop out of the steering column if the clamp holding them comes loose , the commission said .
Kash ' N Gold of Ronkonkoma , New York , is recalling 7,500 of its Gold Racer X20 model because the plastic " T " joint between the handlebars can break , the commission said .
More than 30,000 injuries associated with scooters have been treated in U.S. emergency rooms so far this year .
---
Nokia inks deal with Ramp : Nokia and Ramp Networks have signed an agreement by which Nokia has agreed to acquire the Santa Clara , California-based provider of Internet security appliances .
Under the terms of the agreement , Nokia has agreed to commence a cash tender offer within 10 business days for all the outstanding Ramp Networks shares at a price of $ 5.80 per share .
NOK
- - -
Motorola comes up short : Mobile-phone giant Motorola said its fourth-quarter results would miss expectations , making it the latest technology bellwether to issue an earnings warning , following Apple and Gateway .
Schaumburg , Illinois-based Motorola said it now expects sales for the fourth quarter of $ 10 billion and earnings per share of 15 cents , whereas earlier guidance given in October called for sales of $ 10.5 billion and earnings per share of 27 cents .
MOT
The company said the lower results were driven by shortfalls in its semiconductor and personal communications units .
- - -
Univision snags USA Broadcasting : Univision Communications will acquire USA Broadcasting for $ 1.1 billion in cash .
The boards of both companies have approved the deal , but it is still subject to regulatory approval and closing conditions .
There has been widespread speculation that USA Networks , whose assets include the SCI-FI Network , Ticketmaster and the Home Shopping Network , would sell its 13 television stations .
- - -
Busted in Hong Kong : Hong Kong 's anti-graft agency has smashed a syndicate suspected of producing stamping equipment for export to South American counterfeiting operations .
The counterfeiters use the equipment to make illegal VCDs , CDs and computer software .
The Independent Commission Against Corruption said it had arrested six people over the weekend and seized stampers worth US$ 51 million .
Microsoft 's Hong Kong office confirmed that 25 stampers containing Microsoft software were unauthorized and worth US$ 2 million each .
- - -
Pentagon saves Iridium satellites : The U.S. Department of Defense is stepping in to prevent $ 5 billion worth of Iridium communications satellites from falling to Earth and triggering possible " widespread anxiety . "
Staving off a fiery end to the 66-satellite necklace and its spares , the Pentagon awarded a projected two-year , $ 72 million communications contract to seal a new ownership deal worked out in a New York bankruptcy court .
The new owners , led by Dan Colussy , president of Pan American World Airways from 1978 to 1980 , have contracted with Boeing to take over operation of the system from electronics giant Motorola , Pentagon officials said .
- - -
Best Buy 's big buy : Consumer electronics retailing giant Best Buy has signed an agreement to acquire Musicland Stores for about $ 425 million .
The agreement will give Best Buy entry into more than 1,300 retail outlets that Musicland operates under the names Sam Goody 's , Suncoast , Mediaplay and On Cue .
Musicland also operates four commercial websites .
- - -
Uproar buys TrafficMarketplace : Uproar , an interactive entertainment company , has agreed to acquire TrafficMarketplace.com , an online advertising brokerage service based in Los Angeles .
Established last April , TrafficMarketplace.com provides marketing solutions for Internet advertisers and publishers .
The company has about 20 employees and will continue to operate out of Los Angeles .
Wired News wire services contributed to this report .




Joys and Sorrows of the Mac OS X

I had the same reaction to Mac OS X that a lot of people have had -- how the heck do I make it work ?
After installing the software , which went effortlessly , I struggled to figure out how to eject the installation disk .
I expected to drag the disk 's icon to the Trash , but there was no icon on the desktop where I expected it to be .
It took about five minutes of dickering around to figure out that the disk icon was now in the Finder window .
My first reactions to this confusion were frustration and anger -- not a good start to working with the new system .
But after a few days of casual use , I 'm really warming to Mac OS X.
The fluid , dynamic Aqua interface is a pleasure to watch .
Like a kid , I spent a long time opening and closing applications just to watch the Dock at the bottom of the screen expand and contract as it added and removed program icons .
And then , like Jerry Lewis , I ran the mouse up and down the Dock , laughing as the application icons ballooned to twice their size as the mouse cursor passed over them .
I like Mac OS X 's sparse look .
It 's even more stripped down than Windows 2000 , my current operating system of choice .
And I like the details : the see-through menus , the drop shadows , the glowing buttons .
The whole machine -- the iMac and its iMac-like interface -- look slick and modern .
Older operating systems , especially Windows 98 , look hopelessly old-fashioned and stale by comparison .
Mac OS X 's underlying system seems fast , though the original 233 MHz iMac I installed it on sometimes struggles to do some computationally intensive tasks , like redrawing windows as they are dragged across the screen .
Applications also seem to take a long time to load up and I sometimes found myself banging the keyboard or the mouse in an attempt to make things go faster .
I also found myself irritated by the bouncing icons that accompany the launch of an application .
However , I was pleasantly surprised to discover that Mac OS X ran just fine with only 32 MB of RAM -- the standard configuration for the original Bondi Blue iMacs .
Apple recommends 128 MB .
Trouble is , there was n't enough memory to open a browser or do much else , and so I upgraded the machine with another 128 MB of memory .
It 's a good thing RAM is relatively cheap .
Now it zips along nicely .
For a long time , PCs have rendered Web pages faster than Macs , but Mac OS X seems to be very responsive when it comes to Web browsing , a welcome improvement .
I installed Omni Group 's OmniWeb browser , which -- in keeping with Mac OS X -- has a nice simple interface that is bright and colorful .
It does , however , have some unusual default settings .
The browser asks you every time whether you want to accept a cookie , a chore that quickly becomes tiring , and I was unable to log into Hotmail , a problem that I have n't yet figured out .
The biggest disappointment was Mac OS X 's Classic Environment -- the part of the operating system that runs traditional Macintosh applications .
The Classic Environment was painfully slow and unstable .
After crashing a couple of times , I gave it up .
If I need the classic Mac OS , I 'll boot right into it at startup .




Privacy a Likely Loser in Treaty

WASHINGTON -- A controversial cybercrime treaty supported by the Clinton administration likely will not be amended to include privacy protections , a key European official said on Thursday .
" We can not find an acceptable international standard in terms of privacy as it applies to this treaty , " said Henrik Kaspersen of the Council of Europe , which expects to finalize the document this month .
" We do n't want to exclude privacy .
We very much want to include it , " said Kaspersen , chairman of the council 's committee of cybercrime experts . "
But there are a number of existing case laws dealing with privacy throughout Europe , and we 're also dealing with countries like the United States and Japan that have differing legal systems . "
The treaty , which is being circulated among more than 40 nations , is designed to aid police investigations by requiring websites and Internet service providers to collect and record information about their users , a move privacy groups insist goes too far .
It could also make it illegal to distribute some kinds of security products used by system administrators to secure their networks against intruders .
Kaspersen 's remarks came at an event highlighting the release of a report by McConnell International , a Washington policy consultancy founded by Bruce McConnell , a White House aide under Presidents George Bush and Bill Clinton .
The Cyber Crime and Punishment report reviewed the state of computer crime laws in 52 nations .
Ten different offenses were sorted into four general areas : data crimes , network crimes , access crimes and related misdeeds , such as computer forgery and computer-related fraud .
Of the countries analyzed , the report found that nine had extended their criminal laws online to prosecute a majority of the offenses on the list .
" The long arm of the law does not yet reach across the global Internet , " McConnell said . "
Organizations must rely on their own defenses for now .
Governments , industry and civil society must all work together to develop consistent and enforceable national laws to deter future crimes in cyberspace . "
The McConnell International report strongly supports the Council of Europe 's approach , and says the group has been " realistic , practical , efficient , balanced , and respectful of due process that protects individual rights . "
But Jim Dempsey , senior staff counsel for the Center for Democracy and Technology , said the council has not adequately addressed privacy concerns .




Mac OS Facelift Turns Back Time

A graphic designer is working on a complete facelift of Mac OS X that would replace the system 's glitzy new look with one more closely resembling the traditional Mac interface .
Raul Gutierrez , a graphic designer and photographer from Los Angeles , is developing a software patch that would strip away OS X 's striking new look -- replacing it with one that looks more like the interface in the current Mac OS , which is often referred to as " Platinum " because of its distinctive silvery gray color scheme .
" I 'm trying as much as possible to create something that looks like the standard Platinum theme that most Mac users are used to , " Gutierrez said . "
It 's not an exact copy but it 's a good approximation . "
Apple 's new operating system , which is currently undergoing a public beta test in preparation for its release early next year , has garnered equal amounts of praise and criticism .
A lot of people like its candy-colored interface , but some Mac traditionalists miss cherished features , or are having trouble adapting ingrained computing habits to the new system .
A large number of these critics have tweaked OS X in one way or another with various hacks and utilities to make it more closely resemble the system they are accustomed to .
But Gutierrez 's project is more ambitious .
Instead of putting together a grab bag of tweaks and hacks , Gutierrez plans to completely overhaul the interface .
He is using an interface editor called Theminator , which is currently unavailable because of what appears to be a legal tussle with Apple .
Neither Theminator 's author , Dave MacLachlan , nor Apple could be contacted for an explanation .
Gutierrez , who has been using OS X for more than a year , said he is retrofitting the system 's interface because he can n't get used to switching between the old interface in OS X 's Classic Environment -- the part of the system that runs older Mac applications -- and the new Aqua interface that overlooks everything else .
" I find the transition jarring and annoying , " he said . "
I actually do n't mind the look of Aqua but sometimes it gets in your face . "
Gutierrez said he knows of at least two other designers working on similar projects .
Gutierrez is the author of Winfix , a software patch released last year that removes the metallic " skin " from Apple 's Sherlock search engine and restores a more traditional look .
The Winfix patch has proven incredibly popular , Gutierrez said .
He estimated it has been downloaded between 60,000 and 70,000 times , and has been included on scores of shareware disks .
Gutierrez expects to finish his OS X project in a couple of weeks and plans to post it as a free download on his website .
" It 's incredibly tedious and boring , " he said . "
I 'm doing it pixel by pixel . "
However , because Apple has n't provided software tools to work with OS X 's interface , Gutierrez can only alter surface details like color and appearance , rather than deeper features like the placement of scroll bars or menus .
" Unlike previous Mac OSs , it 's a closed system , " he said .
Apple in the past has been very tolerant of interface tinkerers , but that seems to have changed with OS X.




China 's Telecom Catch-Up

HONG KONG -- Hong Kong 's chief executive officer had a number of reasons to praise his territory 's Internet savvy as he opened this week 's giant International Telecoms Union show in the former British colony .
Only Scandinavia has more cell phone users , nine out of 10 households have a broadband connection , every second family has a PC , and one out of three people uses the Net , Tung Chee Hwa said .
Tung told the audience that citizens have pride in Hong Kong 's 1997 return to Chinese rule , and that " one country , two systems " is no longer a political concept but an everyday reality in Hong Kong .
It was a positive statement , since it 's the Chinese government 's ambition to unite the former colony with the republic without infringing on the factors that made Hong Kong a financial success .
The former British colony is doing well when it comes to its telecom and information technology infrastructure , and mainland China , along with other countries in the region , appears to be catching up .
However , in many ways China and Hong Kong are less like " one country , two systems " and more like two nations operating on totally different platforms .
For instance , it 's so difficult to obtain a visa to Hong Kong that Chinese telecom executives make jokes about it .
They call it the " prisoner 's ticket , " because once it 's awarded and validated for 18 days , visa holders are not allowed to re-enter China during the period , even if the holder is only visiting a company or family member just one hour 's drive from Hong Kong .
Hong Kong housewives , on the other hand , can take the train to the Chinese city of Schen Zen , where groceries are cheaper , as often as they like .
The explanation is money , of course , since Hong Kong 's per capita household income is huge compared to China 's .
Figures from the 1998 United Nations ITU report put incomes at $ 24,612 compared to just $ 768 , respectively .




Turn On , Tune In , Drop Cash

Can n't wait to get to the store to purchase that song you just heard on the radio ?
No problem , if you 've got a cell phone .
Two emerging services -- Buzzhits and * CD -- allow users to immediately identify and purchase a song playing on the radio .
Both are confident they can succeed despite the failure of a similar company , Xenote iTag .
That service allowed users to bookmark music heard on certain radio stations with a keychain-sized clicker , which stored key data that could be retrieved by a computer .
" We power impulse response , " said George Wu , president of Buzzhits . "
Our technology platform allows businesses to capture consumers . "
Users call an 800 number when they hear a song on the radio , punch in the station ID , and receive a five-second sound clip and the option to purchase the CD .
They can also have information e-mailed to their accounts or posted on their personal websites , which can be accessed from any computer .
Wu hopes to play the major radio stations off one another -- corporations such as Clear Channel and Infinity Broadcasting -- to start a bidding war for the data he collects .
The winners , he said , could then use the aggregate data to try and draw listeners away from a competitor .
For example , if Buzzhits tracks a big spike from one station when a particular song comes on , they 'll relay that information to its partner station .
Then , using the aggregate e-mail database that the company has amassed , the partner could go out and do an interview or event with the artist or band and turn it into a direct marketing campaign .
" On the music product , the radio station gets a better understanding of their P1 -- their most avid listeners , " said Wu . "
They understand the value of capturing their listeners to market back to them .
But these stations do n't capture the listeners of other radio stations .
The service will work with any radio station , but we will n't work with every radio station to help them direct market . "
The business model relies heavily on radio station involvement , and Infinity Broadcasting 's Los Angeles station is n't so sure the new technology can help them .
The station has good relations with the traditional retail market , and would n't want to suddenly appear as a competitor , said Gene Sandbloom , KROQ 's assistant programming director .
More importantly , Sandbloom said his station was preparing to launch its own Web-based information gathering service .
" I think that it 's kind of a misnomer , that if someone browses a CD that they love it , " said Sandbloom . "
I browse websites constantly looking for information for our jocks .
That does n't mean I like the music . "




Big Brother Watches Your Weight

Is n't technology a wonder ?
Global Positioning System satellites were originally used by the U.S. military to keep track on troop movements .
Now , in Switzerland , they 're being used to find new ways for overweight people to burn off excess fat .
Research , conducted at University of Lausanne , uses GPS satellites to track the energy output and activity patterns of overweight men and women .
The thinking is that by tracking the patient 's position -- by measuring movements -- doctors and nutritionists will be able to determine the amount of energy expended .
" The GPS logger can measure the position , speed and displacement of the patient , " said Yves Schutz , professor of physiology and nutrition at Lausanne .
While it may seem obvious that overweight people would benefit from exercising , Schutz believes the devices will be able to show patients , in a very concrete way , how much more energy they could expend by choosing the stairway over the elevator .
" It is important to say to the patient , ' Be more active , ' and the patient may walk a little more , or not take the elevator , but he has no way of knowing how many calories he 's burned , " said Schutz . "
If you are able to record this data , you will be able to see if the duration of the exercise is beneficial -- you can calculate and tell the patient if his exercise was worthwhile . "
Schutz said this information can be very encouraging to the patient , a source of motivation to continue exercising .
The device , called a GPS logger , is about the size of a cell phone and can be clipped to the patient 's belt .
It comes with a small antenna that can be attached to a hat or the back of the patient 's jacket .
When the patient is wearing this equipment his every move can be tracked .
Unlike most applications of GPS technology -- which range from keeping tabs on armies to telling the auto club where you 're stranded -- Schutz insists that the physical location of the patient is of no interest here .
" We do n't care whether the patient is downtown , by a garage or in a restaurant , " Schutz said . "
We do not use the GPS logger to be intrusive , but just to track their energy output . "
What they do n't track , however , is trips to the neighborhood McDonald 's .
While Schutz 's research does include an evaluation of nutritional intake , the tracking devices are not used to keep tabs on the patients eating habits .
When the patient is inside a building or vehicle , the GPS signal is blocked .
This is where the accelerometer kicks in.
This device monitors the patient 's activities by using small , 1-centimeter sensors integrated into a belt .
The sensors record frontal acceleration , or forward movement , and vertical acceleration , such as jumping .
The patient 's every move can be recorded , whether he is walking on a flat surface , up a flight of stairs , cycling or jogging .
The combination of the two devices " allow us to measure physical activity both outside , in free living conditions , and inside at home and at work , " Schutz said .
The patient wears the devices from the time he gets out of bed to the time he gets back into it , he can discard it when he dons his pajamas . "
When static , the patient does not need to wear the device , " Schutz said .




Devising Invisible Ink

WASHINGTON -- An ambitious effort to protect online anonymity will kick off this weekend .
A working group of about a dozen technologists , called NymIP , is gathering before the Internet Engineering Task Force 's meeting to take the very first steps toward devising a standard that will foster untraceable communications and Web browsing for Internet users .
Currently , commercial products such as Anonymizer.com and Zero Knowledge 's Freedom client permit anonymous or pseudonymous Net-surfing .
The NymIP effort aims to create standard protocols that would be more widely adopted and not tied to one company 's product or service .
Zero Knowledge , a Montreal firm , began the project last month , but the working group is now headed by Harvard University 's Scott Bradner , an IETF veteran .
Quips Zero Knowledge engineer John Bashinski : " I 've been heard enough as it is , and am trying to moderate my natural big-mouthed tendencies and let others speak for a while . "
One probable topic of discussion : The tradeoffs between bandwidth and security .
Absolute security requires scads of cover traffic to mask the communications that a user wants to conceal , but it also eats up bandwidth .
" Scalability is n't too bad if you 're looking at scaling the number of users , " writes Bashinski in a post to the NymIP mailing list . "
Where scaling seems to bite you is with the size of the anonymity group , defined as the set of users that , given the information the recipient or an eavesdropper has , could have sent a given message .
In high-security systems , more or less those with meaningful resistance to traffic analysis , scaling in the anonymity group size seems to be superlinear , maybe even N^2 . "
Translation : That 's enough to clog a lot of T-3 lines .
The meeting is set for Sunday afternoon in advance of the IETF gathering in San Diego .
----
Cyber-sensibilities : Privacy advocates may get headlines , but it 's business lobbyists that congress critters listen to .
That means Internet users may not have to fret about a controversial " cybercrime " treaty after all : The U.S. Chamber of Commerce on Friday said it publicly opposed it .
" The United States must not agree to any treaty that fails to protect the rights of consumers and places unnecessary and costly burdens on e-Commerce companies , " said Rick Lane , the chamber 's director of e-commerce , in a statement . "
The treaty proposed by the Council of Europe goes too far and could undermine the incredible growth we have seen in electronic commerce . "
The chamber says it represents over 3 million businesses and organizations .
An official from the Council of Europe , which is drafting the treaty with the help of the Clinton administration , said this week that it would likely not include the privacy protections that civil libertarians had demanded .




Speed Is Key for Intel

Intel said on Monday it had built the smallest and fastest transistor , the key building block for microprocessors , allowing it to build speedier microprocessors for computers and other devices in the future .
The new transistor , which can finish 2 million calculations in the time it takes a speeding bullet to travel an inch , needs only low voltage to operate , Intel said .
Within five to 10 years , the transistor will allow Intel to build microprocessors that contain more than 400 million transistors , operate at speeds as fast as 10 gigahertz , and require less than one volt to operate , the company said .
In contrast , today 's Pentium 4 processor contains 42 million transistors and runs at 1.5 gigahertz .
- - -
IBM to produce new microships : IBM announced it has launched production of powerful new microchips for servers , communications gear and pervasive computing products .
IBM
The new technology , named CMOS 9S can be used to build chip circuits as small as 0.13 microns , or nearly 800 times thinner than a human hair .
The smaller circuitry and improved materials can pack more processing power on a single chip , helping electronic products from computers to cell phones support new , performance-hungry applications like speech recognition , fingerprint authentication and wireless video .
- - -
3Com and Broadcom strike a deal : Data networking company 3Com and high-speed communications chipmaker Broadcom said they have entered a networking alliance to accelerate the deployment of a local area network technology .
COMS
BRCM
The strategic alliance will accelerate the deployment of Gigabit Ethernet -- very fast local area networking -- into business networks , the companies said .
3Com , which is already a shareholder in Broadcom , said it has issued a warrant to Broadcom to acquire up to 7.1 million shares of 3Com stock , representing about 2 percent of 3Com 's outstanding shares , through Dec. 4 , 2002 .
- - -
Brits go mobile for Christmas : One in 10 British adults expects to give a mobile phone as a Christmas present , according to a survey .
The survey of 1,000 people by NOP Research Group suggested 4.7 million handsets will be sold in the industry 's traditional peak selling period .
Reflecting the mobile phone 's massive appeal to the young , one in three of the phones bought for Christmas will go to a child under 14 .
" The figures provide an antidote to some of the recent gloomy forecasts concerning growth in the mobile market and are broadly in line with network operator expectations , " Colin Strong , director of NOP Business , said in a statement .
- - -
Qualcomm to take a hit : Qualcomm will take a one-time charge of $ 80 million in the fiscal first quarter , ended this month , after an arbitrator ruled against it in a royalty dispute with a Korean partner .
QCOM
The $ 80 million charge is for additional royalties to be shared with the Korean Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute as well as interest and other costs during a joint development agreement between 1992 and 2000 .
ETRI
- - -
Lernout & Hauspie struggling : A Belgian court denied Lernout & Hauspie a request for bankruptcy protection , pushing the maker of speech-recognition software a step closer to liquidation of its non-U.S. assets .
The commercial court of Ieper , the small Flemish town where L & H has its mainheadquarters , ruled Friday against granting the company concordat status -- the Belgian equivalent of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection -- on the grounds that L & H failed to provide it with accurate accounting data and a viable restructuring plan .
The ruling is a blow to L & H 's chances of survival amid a deepening accounting scandal .
- - -
RealNetworks announces new product : RealNetworks unveiled RealSystem iQ , a new foundational architecture for digital media delivery .
Previous technologies have relied on origin servers to distribute media streams hierarchically to edge servers and then to consumers ; however , RealSystem iQ with Neuralcast Technology fundamentally changes this " one-way " approach of origin-to-edge distribution .
TM
Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report .




Newsmax Knows Its Audience

One imagines that when the presidential election finally ends , Florida will be littered from the Panhandle to the Keys with political signs .
If TV news is any indication , the Sunshine State will be buried to its knees in canned invectives like " Sore-Loserman " and " Katherine the Terrible . "
And among those will be another banner , which you might have found a bit cryptic if you saw it on TV : " Newsmax.com . "
Newsmax , a two-year-old right-leaning news site , has been well served by the election fight over Florida .
Perhaps as a result of having its banners flashed behind unsuspecting TV reporters , its popularity has skyrocketed during the last couple of months .
On a shoestring budget compared to other media sites , Newsmax has attracted a loyal audience of a few hundred thousand visitors a month , many of whom swear that it offers the only unbiased news available in the United States .
If its growth trends continue , Newsmax 's founder , Christopher Ruddy , says the site will one day become " the CNN of the Internet . "
That 's because , Ruddy said , Newsmax is reporting something that others in the media are skipping : the truth .
To be sure , the truth according to Newsmax is very different from the truth according to , say , The New York Times .
On a given day , Newsmax will feature headlines like " Gore 's Swan Song : Hail to the Cheat ! " and " Democrats Plot Against Bush . "
Much of the site is a Matt Drudge-inspired index of the Web 's other news sources , but unlike Drudge , Newsmax also features original content .
It has a stable of conservative columnists who report such delicacies as the latest goings-on in the independent counsel investigation of Bill Clinton , or how democratic judges in Florida are conspiring to give Gore the White House .
And it 's this kind of stuff , Ruddy says , that 's attracting people to Newsmax . "
There 's tremendous antipathy in the middle of the country , " he says . "
People feel that they 're being ignored by the traditional media .
So they come to our site for something different . "
When Ruddy talks about the " traditional media , " he 's alluding to the famous " liberal media bias " that the right has always pinned on mainstream news and TV media .
Whether or not that bias actually exists is n't really important , Ruddy thinks ; people believing it exists is what drives them to search for alternatives like Newsmax , he said .
In a sense , that 's why Ruddy started Newsmax -- he saw that there was a market of people who were sick of traditional media , and he saw the Internet as a great way to deliver to them something different .
After working as a reporter at the New York Post and the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review , Ruddy wrote The Strange Death of Vincent Foster : An Investigation , a book that questioned the apparent suicide death of the former White House counsel .
This put him into the camp of journalists like Michael Isikoff , who helped break the Monica Lewinsky-scandal story -- they were hated by the left , and idolized by the right .
According to some Newsmax readers , part of why they trust Newsmax is because of Ruddy 's previous reporting experience .
Robert Fanning , an avid reader from Montana , said that Newsmax " dares to dig to the other side .
They get to the bottom , and they refuse to believe the other side .
They have the gall and audacity to take on the system . "
Of course , depending on political persuasion , some might say that what Ruddy actually pursues at Newsmax is better termed " punditry " than " journalism " -- but most everyone would likely agree that it could also be termed , more simply , " business . "
In November , Newsmax turned profitable , Ruddy said .
Total investment in the company so far has been less than $ 10 million , which is substantially less than other news sites , many of which are still money-losers .
Solid traffic statistics for Newsmax are a bit hard to pin down .
According to the traffic-monitoring company Media Metrix , Newsmax does n't attract anywhere near the number of readers as sites like Salon and Slate : more than a million people visited each of those sites in October , Media Metrix reported , while Newsmax had about 300,000 readers .
But Ruddy rejected Media Metrix 's numbers , saying that ratings agencies are " notoriously off " for new sites .
He pointed to statistics from Doubleclick , the firm that runs ads for Newsmax , which showed that the site received more than one million unique visitors in November .




New Film ' Dungeons ' Drags On

Too many films based on a tale with origins far from Hollywood suffer from that irksome flaw of not being true to the original , leaving fans to gnash their teeth and moan like an orc with gastritis .
Not so Dungeons & Dragons , which is afflicted with the related but equally vexing ailment of hewing too closely to the awesomely popular role-playing game that gave it life .
To wit : The 100-minute flick from New Line Cinema is less a story of love and adventure than a convenient vehicle for some occasionally-phenomenal light shows in dungeons and hordes of swooping dragons flapping around the Empire of Izmer looking like nothing so much as oversized pterodactyls equipped with +5 fireballs and terribly bad attitudes .
But successful real-life D&D games require far more -- well-drawn heroes and convincing antagonists are not at all optional .
And in devising this wide screen adaptation that opened Friday , director-grand-poobah Courtney Solomon has failed repeated saving throws against the chaotic-evil forces of blandness and blah .
By itself , the story shows promise .
A vaguely medieval society is sharply divided between the Mages -- an elite and somewhat stuffy breed of magic users who skulk around their towering stone fortress -- and everyone else .
Izmer 's teen empress wants everyone to be " equal , " a vague but unobjectionable idea , while the evil Mage Profion has successfully convinced the legislature otherwise .
an unremarkable Thora Birch
Jeremy Irons
A power struggle that makes the Florida election look like an endearing display of bonhomie ensues , and the winner is the side that can find the fabled Rod of Savrille and thus command the mighty red dragons .
Enter two thieves , Ridley and Snails , who join a cute young female mage , a grumpy dwarf , and an aloof elf -- your classic D&D traveling companions -- to trounce the bad guy , help the good one , and perhaps encounter a love interest or two along the way .
Justin Whalin
Marlon Wayans
It 's a good start , but not much more .
The director , Solomon , can n't seem to decide whether to take the film seriously or allow it to spoof itself -- and neither can the actors .
The performance by Academy Award-winning Irons is remarkable only in how lackluster it is , and Wayans ' inner-city slang is as out of place as he would be in any believable Thieves ' Guild .
Note to Solomon : Thieves should be lithe and sneaky , not bumbling trolls .
At least -- spoiler alert -- this Jar Jar Binks stand-in is slaughtered halfway through the movie .




Maybe It < i>Is</i> Safe to Swim Again

SYDNEY , Australia -- Twenty-six years after filmmaker Steven Spielberg turned ocean swimming into a heart-pounding angst fest , it could soon become a lot safer to go in the water .
By carrying a unit emitting a field of electrical charges , surfers , swimmers and scuba divers may be able to disgust the taste buds of sharks , encouraging the finned carnivores to look elsewhere for food .
Given a spate of recent shark attacks in Australia , the technology could be a win all around .
Swimmers will feel better , sharks are less likely to mistake humans for more tasty seals or turtles , and fishermen may be less likely to string the creatures up on dockside piers .
The technology , called SharkPOD was originally invented in South Africa .
for Protective Oceanic Device
Current units , available since 1995 , are roughly the size of a football and weigh about 10 pounds .
They 're generally strapped on to a scuba tank .
But an Australian firm is racing to reduce the units to the size of two cigarette packs that could be wrapped around the waist for swimmers and snorkelers .
In September , the technology was demonstrated during the triathlon event of the Sydney Olympics , which featured a harbor swim by 50 competitors near the Sydney Opera House , just three miles from Sydney Harbor 's opening to the Tasman Sea .
To reassure everybody , divers carrying SharkPODs swam beneath the triathletes to ensure the Olympians finished in one piece .
They all did .
But then , heavy boat traffic in Sydney Harbor during the Games would by itself have been enough to chase off any but the most diehard fish -- sharks included .
Experts estimated the chance of competitors getting attacked by sharks during the event at roughly nil , said George Faulkner , technical operations manager for the Olympics triathlon event .
Even so , race organizers opted to use the technology anyway to help competitors focus on winning gold medals and huge sponsorships instead of sharks in the water .
Apparently , no one thought whether the lack of such a reassurance might have led to quicker swimming times --- and a more exciting race .
Those questions are academic now because no one got bitten .
But whether that was the SharkPODs ' work or not is anyone 's guess .




Net Monitoring Service Pays Users

Tracking how fast data really moves around the Net has been about as accurate as predicting the weather , so Distributed Science is asking you to help share the load .
Distributed Science , one of several companies looking to commercialize the once-voluntary distributed computing phenomenon , is teaming with Internet monitoring service Envive to get home PC users to make money by logging on .
Distributed computing uses the processing power of ordinary PCs to tackle difficult computational problems such as scanning radio waves from outer space or deciphering gene sequences .
Distributed Science got its start with Gamma Flux , a nonprofit research project , working on a project to determine the best means of storing nuclear waste .
Teaming with Envive marks its first for-profit job .
Envive 's monitoring services , called Prophecy and Sensory , monitor the performance of transactions with commerce sites and applications providers on the Internet .
The websites use the results to determine where customers might be getting poor performance , such as in a certain region or on a certain ISP , then tune content delivery or application for improvement .
However , this assessment previously only covered the connection from the provider to the " edge server , " which relays the content -- not " the last mile , " the connection to the end user .
Adding the Distributed Sciences client to Envive 's technology enables a complete measurement from host to user .
" want to get the end user , not the ISP , " said Armin Lenz , vice president of marketing for Distributed Science . "
E-commerce companies
They have to make sure that they are reachable , so they want to be able to trace where they are unreachable . "
The modified Distributed Science client , due out in the next week , will not only communicate from PCs to their servers , but also among other machines in a PC 's region .
Each area will have a preferred machine that handles responses to Envive performance checks .
When that machine goes offline , one of the other machines in the peer group takes over as the representative machine .
So if there are a dozen computers in a city , one will be the designated primary response computer -- and when it goes off , another takes over for it automatically .
This allows for twenty-four hour coverage , seven days a week , said Lenz .
The DS client runs in the background , and there should be no impact at all in performance on the system when the client is doing the performance measurements , he said .
" It 's really critical that know the real customer experience , " said Bill Leavy , vice president of marketing for Envive . "
the websites
If it 's not working well enough customers will look for alternative places to go . "
Envive customers , including Sony , Military.com , Wal-Mart and AutoWeb , can see traffic readings about their performance in different cities , states , regions and countries or network backbones .
They can also zoom in on problem regions for more details to attempt to diagnose problems .
With 146,000 volunteers worldwide running the DS client , Envive expects to be able to offer a much wider and more accurate means of covering the Internet .
" This offers more locations and a better quality of response than if we were to set up in a data center , " said Leavy . "
If we had to do this ourselves , there is no way we could do that in a timely manner .
It gives us deep coverage in any location . "
The Envive network will go live in January , with 75 cities in the initial test before scaling up nationally to a few hundred cities .
Distributed Sciences expects to land venture capital money some time in January and announce new commercial clients in the next six months , according to Lenz .




Do Pocket PCs Have Blue Teeth ?

The Consensus among the vendors that packed the San Jose Convention Center last week for the Bluetooth Developers Conference was that smart phones with Bluetooth-embedded chips would be the killer application for the wireless technology .
But amid the bigwig phone manufacturers Ericsson , Motorola and Nokia , were the Microsoft representatives and backers who believe that Pocket PCs , powered by the Windows CE operating system , will also play a significant role in the Bluetooth market .
ERICY
MOT
NOK
MSFT
But even if people wind up liking the Pocket PCs , is it realistic to believe that they will want to carry both Pocket PCs and Web-enabled phones ?
Let 's face it , cell phones rule .
Thanks to the huge and growing numbers of them in the world , they 're almost certainly going to be the killer application , said Socket Communications spokesman Gerald Houston .
But just because cell phones are all the rage , that does n't mean smart phones will make people ditch their Bluetooth-enabled Pocket PCs .
" Guys that buy Palm devices ... are not going to want to squish them into weird phones , " Houston said .
- shaped
Socket Communications , a California company that develops and sells connection products for Windows-based devices , displayed at its booth a " personal network card evaluation kit " that consists of two CompactFlash Type I forms , plug-in cards with embedded Bluetooth radios , baseband hardware and an antennae .
The kit also included two PC card adapters and Windows CE compatible software .
These devices , which would replace the cables of any Windows CE-powered device , give users wireless Internet access .
Socket also has a digital phone card , or low-power plug-in card , that allows Motorola 's StarTAC , Timeport , Talkabout and V phone series to connect to any Windows-based Pocket PC , handheld PC or notebook .
But are they going to want to carry two devices in their pocket ?
That 's the question that will be answered in the next couple of years as companies put out personal digital assistants , cell phone attachments and integrated smart phones .
PDAs
----
Atlanta Bluetooth building : Bluetooth resource Strio announced last week it would design and install Bluetooth technology in a downtown Atlanta building .
The project , which begins this month , will give users in a building located on 241 Peachtree Street wireless Internet and Intranet access on their laptops , personal digital assistants and mobile phones .
Strio will also manage the building 's technology that will run over a network provided by Bluetooth product developer Red-M .
----
Wireless Net access without Bluetooth : Lucent Technologies introduced a universal serial bus device -- a radio transceiver plug-in -- so users can connect a desktop or laptop to a wireless local area network .
USB
The USB device lets a PC communicate with Lucent 's Orinoco access point or any other access point that supports the 802.11 wireless LAN standard .




Sun , Sand and Surfing the Net

SANTA BARBARA , California -- Looking over the pool area at the new $250-million Bacara resort , Shad Lofgreen sees not red-tile roofs , white stucco walls or luscious landscaping , but instead a kind of quietly purring high-tech machine .
The natural beauty of a white sand beach and the sweeping blue Pacific Ocean panorama are just a few steps away , but this place is all Star Trek underneath .
" You come here to get away , " says Lofgreen , Bacara 's full-time technology officer . "
But what if you get a call and you are on your third day of a seven-day spa package ?
Someone needs something right away .
How are you going to get it there ?
" We have designed our technology infrastructure to accommodate that .
And everything else you might want . "
Welcome to your vacation , new millennium style .
New resorts are wired to the hilt these days and older resorts undergoing renovations are all jumping on the bandwagon -- not only providing high-speed Internet access in the rooms , but using technology in other ways to increase the quality of service , entertainment and conferences .
Nowhere is this trend displayed better than at Bacara , which has been designed and marketed , in part , to attract both entertainment industry types from Los Angeles , which is about two hours south , and dot-com CEO types from Silicon Valley , about four hours north .
The thinking behind it is , essentially , if someone is wealthy enough to stay here , you better provide the kind of technological marvels to which he 's become accustomed .
This explains the presence of an $ 18,000 , 42-inch , Fujitsu flat plasma screen television in the Presidential Suite .
The suite also offers a built-in custom stereo system , marble floors and a panoramic ocean view .
All for just $ 5,000 a night .
Bacara also employs a full-time " technology concierge , " whose main responsibility is to help guests with any and all tech needs .
Most of the time , this involves helping them figure out their dial-up number or providing the right plug-in cord , which they may have forgotten in their haste to get out of their cubicle at work .
Bacara 's temporary tech concierge , Jude Augustine , said they will shy away from assisting guests with hardware issues , but everything else is fair game .
" So far we have been able to resolve every situation we 've faced , " he said .
The resort , which charges a rack rate of $ 450 minimum per night , is filled with technological wonders .
Each room was fitted with three phone lines .
Each room also has an atomic clock and a DVD player for guests to view movies checked out from the main desk .
At the pool area , each of the 26 private pool cabanas has a high-speed Internet jack .
Food and drink servers use wireless technology -- Mitsubishi XPN tablets -- which cut the waiting time by more than half .
Bacara has flat-screen monitors at the front desk .
It has tiny speakers hidden in the ballroom chandeliers .
And with ubiquitous wireless service throughout the resort , guests with wireless devices can keep in touch without plugging in.
About mid-way through their two-year construction process , Bacara hired Loftgreen .
It also enlisted RockIt Group , a Los Angeles " hospitality technology " firm , to help out .




This Just In : Lunch Lines Suck

While Tom Brokaw and Dan Rather banter about dimpled and pregnant chads , one ambitious group of eighth graders is busy webcasting the latest news for preteens -- on the Net .
Students at Aviara Oaks Middle School in Carlsbad , California , write , produce , and star in a news program on AOTV .
The 10-minute news show is broadcast on closed-circuit television and the Internet Monday mornings at 8:30 and 11:30 PST .
While it is not unusual for schools to produce their own television shows , Aviara Oaks is the only known middle school in the country to webcast a weekly program .
Eastview High School in Apple Valley , Minnesota , webcasts a weekly Internet news program as well .
While AOTV 's coverage may seem simply entertaining to some -- recent pieces have included stories on the school surf team and an investigative piece on long lunch lines , for example -- their technical skills and editing prowess are anything but sophomoric .
The class uses two Trinity systems , a so-called television studio in a box that allows students to make digital edits , switch cameras , create special effects and graphics , and build virtual sets .
One Trinity system cost $ 12,000 , which was paid for by the school district when the school was built almost three years ago .
Play Incorporated , the company that makes Trinity , was so impressed with the student-run show that they donated a second Trinity machine to the school .
The second machine , called Globecaster , encodes the data , enabling the program to be streamed on the Net .
Doug Green 's 120 broadcasting students also learn how to operate cameras , use the teleprompter , and generate , write , and produce original stories .
" It 's probably more sophisticated than most college TV stations , " said Green , who ran a local video production company before becoming a teacher in the 1990s .
" I think this is just fantastic , " said Philip Cruver , the president of Kidz Online , a nonprofit organization staffed by kids who teach other kids technology skills . "
It 's not that difficult but typically schools are technophobic with cutting-edge stuff like this . "
to use
" It can be really exciting and really nerve-wracking , too , " said Steven Wolfson , an eighth grader who aspires to be a sports broadcaster . "
You can n't go back and fix anything .
You have to be right on it . "




Travel E-Book Means Business

The new animated and free guidebook , The Magic Mountain , is both a multimedia e-book and travel agency .
It 's also an online experiment in convergence that advertisers and publishers will be watching .
As a 1,000-page e-book , The Magic Mountain offers photography , detailed text , 3-D resort-specific landscapes , illustrations , geometric maps of 16 key destinations , and a listing of 200 hotels and 1,000 Alpine establishments .
As partner to a travel agency , Magic Mountain company offers the reader the ability to click on any of those destinations or hotels and arrange a trip .
Magic Mountain gets a commission from all transactions .
Some may argue that this is not an e-book at all but a Web business .
Co-founder of Mountain , Christoph Hargreaves-Allen , disagrees .
" Make no mistake , The Magic Mountain is an e-book -- it 's content produced in digital format to be read on a computer or on special electronic reading devices , " Hargreaves-Allen said .
" It is essentially a guide to the best-of-the-best ski resorts in the Alps .
But there 's more to an e-book than this open definition .
The real issue lies not in what an e-book is , but how it differs from another book . "
Hargreaves-Allen said that while many see the e-book revolution as a new chance for authors , it 's also a new chance for books as objects .
" This is not just about getting published .
It 's about changing traditional media constructs , experimenting with form and content , developing new bundles of information , " he said .
The Magic Mountain , which bills itself as a media company , was founded in the UK in January 2000 .
It 's backed by a private group of investors including Roger Horchow , producer of hit musicals Crazy For You and Kiss Me Kate .
----
MP3-style cliff notes : From Paradise Lost to Pilgrim 's Progress , those thirsting to know it all without having to read a word of it have a new option .
Just listen to MP3 versions of the World 's 100 Greatest Books Audio Collection , which will be released later this month from the InteliQuest Media Corporation .
Previously , the 45-minute audio summaries of the great tomes of world civilization came on 100 CDs or 50 tapes and cost $ 350 .
But now the whole package will go for only $ 50 .
Discussed are the book 's themes , an analysis of the characters , a detailed recreation of the story with descriptive passages from the book , and a concise yet full discussion of the book 's relevance .
The concept behind InteliQuest comes from Steven A. DeVore , founder and former president of SyberVision Systems , and Bonneville International Corporation .
At one point he set a goal to read the great books collection he had purchased from Encyclopaedia Britannica .
But he could n't even get through the first book he cracked on Aristotle 's writings .
What would happen , he thought , if he was able to contract with experts on the great books and have them explain in detail what the books were about .
He could apply that information to a learning system that would not only enable people to understand the works , but remember what they learned .
From that insight , The World 's 100 Greatest Books Audiocassette Collection was born .
Do n't be surprised to see Frankenstein and Moby Dick creeping up the Napster charts .




Music Streams Get Interactive

There 's a new streaming music service in town and this time , it 's legal .
On Monday , Emusic.com signed the first licensing agreement for an interactive music service with the National Music Publishers Association .
EMUS
Emusic CEO Gene Hoffman said the streaming service will be integrated into the existing download service by mid-year 2001 .
In July , the company rolled out its subscription service , which offers consumers unlimited downloads for a monthly fee ranging from $ 9.99 to $ 19.99 .
But requiring users to download , manage and store their own music can be seen as a drawback .
" You could build this into a business , but I do n't think that people willing to pay $ 10 if this was just a streaming service , " Hoffman said .
would be
The streaming component , where users have the ability to determine how they want to listen to their music , will be added by the second quarter of next year , Hoffman said .
While other services also offer streaming , the flexible licensing agreement will allow Emusic to create a more user-friendly service .
" We have a new and additional right to do fully interactive streaming , so what users will have is the ability to listen to anything they see on the site in whatever order they choose , " Hoffman said .
High-profile companies like Farmclub.com and MP3.com rolled out streaming services for the public despite potential conflicts with copyright laws .
Emusic.com took the direct route and negotiated licensing agreements with publishers and musicians to insulate the company from lawsuits .
" The advantages of having negotiated good licenses , not having to work within the constraints of the DMCA compulsory , would let them develop interactive streaming services that are much more compelling than the run-of-the-mill webcaster can , " Forrester analyst Eric Scheirer wrote in an e-mail .
" Right now , I think Emusic offers the most compelling subscription , because it 's about new content .
As long as your music interests are in a content niche they cover well -- jazz , punk rock , classical . "
Other companies have n't fared so well in obtaining the licensing agreements .
The Universal Music Group , which owns Farmclub.com , was sued by the National Music Publishers ' Association on Dec. 8 for copyright infringement .
The Internet music label created the streaming subscription service without signing a licensing agreement with the publishers .
The suit asks for $ 150,000 in damages for each violation -- the same amount that Universal sued for in its case against MP3.com
In April , MP3.com was found guilty of copyright infringement in a federal court for the creation of its streaming locker service .
MPPP
The Universal Music Group refused to settle its case , and eventually secured at $ 53 million judgment .
Representatives from Farmclub.com declined to comment .




Ireland Links to Net 's Future

DUBLIN , Ireland -- Ireland , sometimes jokingly described as America 's 51st state , will gain the research equivalent of statehood .
It 's getting a direct link to , and membership in , the cutting edge Next Generation Internet and Internet 2 research networks in the United States .
The special initiative was announced by the Irish Taoiseach Bertie Ahern in a speech honoring President Clinton during his visit to Dublin Tuesday .
.
" Taoiseach " is Gaelic for Prime Minister
Ireland will link directly to these two state-of-the-art Internet research networks in the United States , using a segment of the fiber optic telecommunications network the Irish government acquired through an unusual partnership deal with telecommunications company Global Crossing .
Within the next 18 months , Irish universities and research institutions will be able to use the network to collaborate with the 170 institutions in the United States involved in NGI and I2 projects .
" Broadband links are set to increase over 20 times between Irish and U.S. research institutions , " said Ahern , during a speech at Dublin 's Guinness brewery . "
That will mean closer cooperation in Internet 2 and Next Generation initiatives between our higher institutes of learning . "
Ahern also said that the area surrounding the Guinness site -- once among the more rundown areas of Dublin 's inner city -- was to be transformed into a multimillion-dollar digital business district , in one of the largest city regeneration projects of the decade .
At the heart of the digital zone will be the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Media Lab Europe , launched last summer by MIT Media Lab and MLE director Nicholas Negroponte .
MLE is located in a former Guinness grain warehouse off a cobbled street in an area known as The Liberties , a neighborhood well known to 18th century Irish writer Jonathan Swift , who was the dean of nearby St Patrick 's Cathedral .
MLE and businesses in the digital district will link directly to the NGI and I2 networks .




3 Dfx Fall Good Voodoo for NVidia

Having gone from hero to zero in less than four years , 3 Dfx will join Diamond Multimedia and S3 in the graphics industry bone yard .
After failing to find enough financing to keep it afloat , the company that propelled the 3-D gaming revolution into the stratosphere in 1996 with its radical chipset and graphics library has gone bust .
3 Dfx 's core assets and technology were sold off to nVidia , one of its major rivals in the 3-D graphics market , for $ 70 million cash and one million nVidia shares .
NVidia also loaned 3 Dfx $ 15 million to keep it solvent , and the two companies have settled their patent-infringement lawsuits .
Both companies had filed suits against each other .
It 's an intellectual property bonanza for nVidia .
The company gains seven patents plus another 40 pending patents ; ends the litigation ; and picks up approximately 100 engineers from 3 Dfx .
" We all know how hard it is to hire people here in the Valley , " said Derek Perez , a spokesman for nVidia . "
Combining their people with our assets makes for a really good company . "
It also gives nVidia the Voodoo brand name , which is widely recognized in the market as a top brand name among video graphics products .
PC Data lists five Voodoo products in its top 10 best-selling graphics boards .
Picking up 3 Dfx also means nVidia can get into incremental markets that it has n't previously played in , such as TV video and set-top boxes , an area where 3 Dfx has experience and nVidia does not .
The deal came down very quickly , and nVidia has n't fully decided what to do with 3 Dfx 's inventory , which it got as part of the deal .
3 Dfx had a video board business after purchasing STB Systems in May of 1999 .
NVidia 's strategy is to make chips and sell them to board makers like Creative Labs , Hercules and ELSA Graphics .
More importantly , nVidia is Microsoft 's partner in developing a high-performance chipset for the upcoming X-Box console , a deal 3 Dfx came very close to securing .
NVidia did not buy the 3 Dfx board manufacturing business and has no plans to go into retail .
Instead , it wants its licensees to take advantage of Voodoo products exiting the market .
" I call it a vacuum effect in retail , " said Perez . "
With them being gone , people will want to buy something , so I think our current retail partners can make a big dent in the market . "
NVidia has the right to do what it wants with the Voodoo brand name , whether it sits on it , sells it , or lets its partners release boards with the Voodoo name but an nVidia chipset , " said Perez .




Greens Push GM Agreement

BRUSSELS , Belgium -- The European Parliament and Council of Ministers have agreed on revisions to the European Union law on deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment after what have been described as heated conciliation talks .
GMOs
The deal comes over three years after proposals for the revision emerged from the European Commission .
Green Members of the European Parliament are claiming a significant victory , having won a new requirement for national authorities to publicize the locations not only of genetically modified crops planted for testing but also the locations of commercially grown crops .
MEPs
This was the key remaining point of friction after the bulk of disagreements were cleared up last month .
In an unusual twist , the final deal appears to have been driven by an alliance of Green politicians in both the Parliament and the Council .
Parliamentary Greens today specifically complimented Green French Environment Minister Dominique Voynet , who led the Council delegation to the talks .
Earlier on in the process , Green MEPs exchanged harsh words with the Parliament 's Socialist rapporteur on the directive .
Though governments have agreed to Parliament 's demand on public registers , the final text suggests that the Greens ' victory may be less than complete .
Member states will have to establish registers for both experimental and commercial releases of GMOs , but will have significant leeway to decide exactly how to make this information public .
Another key outcome of the conciliation talks is agreement on a new requirement for an already agreed ten year limit on GMO marketing approvals .
This will be applied also to further renewals .
Biotechnology interests had campaigned strongly against such an outcome .
For genetically modified crops and forestry reproductive material , the rule is to be slightly softened .
Ten-year approval periods will start when varieties of plant are placed on national seed catalogues rather than when genetically modified " events " are approved under the deliberate release directive .
The Parliament has also won a concession from European Union governments on establishing links between the directive and the United Nations Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety .
The Commission is to be invited to propose ways of implementing the protocol by July 2001 .
First passed in 1990 , the deliberate release law became the focus of intense political debate as public fears about genetically modified crops spread through Europe in the late 1990s .
European Union governments imposed a quasi-moratorium on new approvals of genetically modified organisms in the summer of 1999 , which remains in place , and the European Commission has been forced to make supplementary proposals for strengthened labeling and traceability of genetically modified products .
A resolution adopted by the European Federation of Green Parties at a November 26 meeting in Stockholm declares , " The Green Parties of Europe acknowledge there are scientifically justified concerns about the safety of all foods produced through recombinant DNA technologies and that these genetically modified foods pose unique hazards to the health of both the consumer and the environment . "
The Green parties listed these hazards as , " the potential for generating new toxins , carcinogens and allergens . "
Besides unique risks to humans , the Greens said , GM foods pose unique risks to the environment : creation of super weeds and super viruses , destruction of biodiversity and pollution of soil .
Published in cooperation with ENDS Environment Daily .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Compaq Comes Up Short

Compaq Computer became the latest tech company to warn that slow sales will cause fourth quarter revenue and earnings to fall short of market expectations .
CPQ
The world 's largest computer systems maker on Tuesday said revenue is expected to be between $ 11.2 billion and $ 11.4 billion , as much as 10 percent below expectations , though still 7 percent above year-ago levels .
Earnings , excluding one-time charges , are expected to be between 28 cents and 30 cents per share , below the consensus estimate of 36 cents per share by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial .
- - -
Jeeves cuts jobs : Ask Jeeves , a search engine and Internet company , said it will cut 25 percent of its workforce and take a fourth quarter charge of $ 10 million to $ 12 million for a restructuring .
ASKJ
The move follows Ask Jeeves ' earnings warning last week that it expected a fourth-quarter pro forma loss of $ 18 million , or 50 cents a share .
Analysts had expected a loss of 33 cents per share , according to investment research firm First Call/Thomson Financial .
- - -
Retail sales slump in November : Sales at U.S. retail stores dropped 0.4 percent in November , dragged down by the sharpest slump in new-car sales in more than two years , the Commerce Department said .
Many merchants do as much as half of their annual business during the key Thanksgiving-to-Christmas shopping season , and Wall Street analysts had forecast a modest 0.1 percent rise in November .
The decline in overall retail business was the first actual drop since April , when sales fell 0.5 percent , though sales were flat in both August and in October .
- - -
Whirlpool to cut workforce : Whirlpool , warning that fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of expectations , said it will eliminate as many as 6,300 jobs , or 10 percent of its workforce , in a restructuring that will result in charges of between $ 300 million and $ 350 million in 2001 .
WHR
The company , the world 's largest appliance maker , said it plans to reduce operational expenses by $ 100 million over the next two years as part of a program to save $ 225 million to $ 250 million a year .
The company also said it expects earnings for the first six months of 2001 to be lower than those for the same period of 2000 , but it said that could improve by the second half of 2001 .
- - -
Entel gets bigger chunk of market : Chilean telecommunications firm Entel said that it bought 25 percent of Entel Telefonia Personal from U.S.-based Motorola for $ 125 million , giving it 100 percent of the mobile phone services operator .
With more than 1.2 million mobile telephone clients , Entel controls 39 percent of Chile 's mobile telephone market , it said .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Palm Building Handier Tool

SANTA CLARA -- Palm Computing unveiled its next generation of operating system that the company hopes will accelerate the transformation of Palm devices from simple organizers into a multi-purpose handheld computers .
Version 4.0 of the Palm OS , previewed on Tuesday morning at the PalmSource developers conference , adds support for removable storage devices , wireless telephony and data transfers , and support for the Bluetooth standard .
A beta copy of the new OS was made available to software developers at the conference .
No date was given as to when the new operating system would be released , although executives said most Palm-branded handhelds would be able to upgrade to the system thanks to their flash memory , an advantage over competitor Handspring 's Visors , which are not software upgradeable .
The new OS will be able to read common file formats used by storage devices such as memory cards and will be able to automatically load applications stored on them .
Version 4.0 will also communicate with cell phones and wireless modems , and includes wider support for different wireless networks as well as expanded Web clipping , Palm 's proprietary method of trimming down Web sites for viewing on a handheld device .
The software will be " almost " ready for Bluetooth , a short-range wireless communications technology , when it starts to appear next year , executives said .
To communicate with other Bluetooth devices , Palm handhelds will still need extra hardware and software .
" It will be ready when Bluetooth modules are ready to ship , " said Palm executive David Fedor .
It will not , however , be ready for the new ARM processor chips Palm said it will be migrating to .
Earlier this year , Palm said it will move from Motorola 's Dragonball chip to much faster chips from ARM , a UK-based chip design firm .
The new OS will feature a handful of interface enhancements , including 16-bit color and an Attention Manager that tells the user when a paged message or e-mail has come in that requires their attention .
the Palm OS is currently 8-bit
However , the new OS will not support bigger displays .
The changes reflect Palm 's intention to continue the transformation from a basic information manager to a general-purpose handheld computer .
Palm execs believe the biggest market for this kind of device is the corporate market , which means expanding the range of applications , security and reliability .




Scour : Going , Going , Gone

The assets of Scour Inc. , the bankrupt online search engine and file-sharing company , were auctioned off Tuesday in federal bankruptcy court .
CenterSpan Communications walked off with the prize on its winning bid of $ 9 million .
CenterSpan beat out rivals Liquid Audio and privately held Listen.com with their bid consisting of $ 5.5 million in cash and stock worth $ 3.5 million .
CSCC
LQID
Listen.com chose to offer no more than $ 8.5 million . "
More than any other company , Listen.com thoroughly researched the value of Scour 's assets , " CEO Rob Reid said in a statement . "
With this information , we knew exactly what Scour was worth to us .
We saw absolutely no benefit in spending more than this amount . "
Included among the assets won by CenterSpan was Scour 's valued file-sharing technology , which allows users to swap digital music and video files over a peer-to-peer network , sidestepping the need for a central server .
Scour , which had millions of loyal registered users , had struggled recently to secure additional rounds of financial backing .
Scour 's financial troubles began on July 20 , when the Recording Industry Association of America , the National Music Publishers Association and the Motion Picture Association of America filed copyright infringement suits against Scour .
These lawsuits , along with lawsuits against similar services Napster and MP3.com , scared off prospective investors and set off a chain of events that led to the eventual closing of Scour 's file-exchange service .
In order to fight the lawsuits , Scour was forced to devote a large portion of its financing to legal battles .
This , in turn , diverted money away from developing new licensing agreements and investing in new technologies .
In early September , facing mounting legal expenses , Scour was forced to lay off 52 of its 70 employees after failing to obtain a new round of financing .
In November , Scour shut down its file-exchange service in order to hasten the decision in the pending lawsuit and the sale of its remaining assets .
CenterSpan will now be able to take advantage of Scour 's technology .
However , it will also be faced with the challenge of using this technology in a manner that avoids the legal challenges that haunted Scour .




Celera Maps Out Alternate Route

Celera Genomics is shaking the halls of academic science once again .
Celera researchers say they will publish the human genome map in Science magazine under a special arrangement that would allow the company to monitor access to its database of gene information by hosting it on the company website .
The agreement is unusual because gene researchers in the past have typically submitted their data to GenBank , a free , government-funded database .
Some scientists are worried that a precedent could be set that would limit scientific progress .
" Someone is supposed to be able to reproduce your experiment , that 's part of the scientific process , " said John McPherson , co-director of the Genome Sequencing Center at Washington University in St. Louis , Missouri . "
People take it and expand upon it and this is what drives science .
This is a departure from that . "
Company officials say they 're simply protecting their multibillion-dollar investment in the research .
" If there is anything unprecedented it is the amount of info that we are making available to the world researchers , " said Heather Kowalski , a spokeswoman for Celera . "
We believe this fits into our business plan because folks will see the quality of the data and get a taste for the tools that are available and want to subscribe . "
But critics say that 's not OK .
They understand that the company wants to protect its investment and intellectual property , but if they do n't want to share all their data , they shouldnt publish any of it .
" If there are huge restrictions , the publication becomes an infomercial , " said McPherson . "
Like AOL sticks a CD-ROM in your mailbox but you can n't really use it unless you sign up -- do they just want to hook people in and then sell the database ? "
Academic researchers will have open access to the database according to the agreement , but researchers from for-profit companies will be required to sign a technology transfer agreement saying they will n't commercialize their results or redistribute the sequence .
Otherwise , they must pay a subscriber fee , which can be more than a million dollars a year , or license the technology .
In June , rival teams from Celera and the Human Genome Project surprised the scientific community by ending an ongoing race to finish the maps , and announcing together that they each had completed a " working draft . "




The Other Dots Are Still Prized

When Network Solutions announced it was accepting requests for the new dot-info and dot-biz top-level domains last week , its site was deluged with visitors .
There was so much interest , a representative said , that some people were shut out .
Consequently , customers were sent an e-mail asking them to try again if they 'd encountered problems .
The overwhelming interest in these new top-level domain names was particularly surprising because Network Solutions was n't even offering people the chance to actually purchase a dot-biz or dot-info domain .
That can n't happen until the Commerce Department green-lights the new TLDs .
The company was merely allowing consumers to " request " a domain , so that when it became available , they 'd be notified .
But despite the meager offer , domain-name gurus flocked to the site -- an indication that , notwithstanding the Internet industry downturn , domain names are still a hot item and grabbing a good one is still seen as one of the best ways to start an Internet business .
The story of the dot-tv domain name -- the former country code of the Pacific Island nation of Tuvalu , which is now being marketed as an alternative to dot-com -- lends credence to this theory .
In October , dot-tv announced that 100,000 people had registered dot-tv addresses .
The company called this a record , saying it had taken dot-com six years to get 100,000 domains , and it only took dot-tv six months .
Of course , that dot-com figure is pretty misleading .
When dot-com was unveiled in the early 1990s , there were far fewer people using the Web , let alone snapping up domain names .
And by comparison , in the same period that dot-tv registered 100,000 names , dot-com registrations numbered in the millions , according to Network Solutions and other domain registries -- so it does n't look like dot-tv is hurting dot-com .
Still , dot-tv 's 100,000 registrations in six months are n't chump change .
Other " repurposed " country codes , like dot-am and dot-fm , have n't yet reached the 100,000 mark , though they 've been around for two years or more .
Moreover , there are indications that dot-tv 's advertising campaign -- which , weirdly , is presently only on the radio -- is causing registrations to accelerate .
Rob Kostich , dot-tv 's senior vice president of marketing , said that since October , the company has been able to sign up roughly another 100,000 users , " and we have a plan that calls for such consistent growth , " he said .
But if dot-tv 's registrations are doing well , what does that say about dot-tv 's customers -- are they being well served by their funky new addresses ?
More specifically , do Web users want to go to dot-tv sites ?




Palm Inventor : Yes It Can

Fact or Fiction ? : Sony showed some incredible video of prototype handhelds it is working on , but if or when we 'll ever see the real things is uncertain .
Keiji Kimura , president of Sony 's Personal Information Technology Network division , showed a picture of a digital still camera based on the company 's MemoryStick technology .
The camera was tiny , about the size of a stick of gum and not much thicker , with a lens at one end and an LCD screen on the back .
Kimura also showed a memory stick cell phone that recently went on sale in Japan .
The phone can download and store music over a cell phone network , but thanks to a protection scheme , can n't copy or redistribute tracks .
Kimura also showed a promotional video featuring a color handheld computer that used the memory stick slot as an expansion port for a range of add-on devices , including a GPS unit , a video camera and a module that identified the user from their fingerprint .
Perhaps the most striking thing about the handheld was the user interface , which clearly was n't the Palm OS .
Instead , users navigated the device via large , glowing touch-screen buttons and virtual dials .
" You definitely will be able to see them soon , " Kimura said .
Size matters : Jet-setting journalist Ben Hammersley , a technology reporter with the venerable Times of London , said he has almost completely dispensed with his laptop in favor of a Handspring Visor and a foldout keyboard .
" I leave the UK every three weeks and a laptop is a pain in the arse because it 's so big , " Hammersley said . "
Even the charger is bigger than a Palm . "
Hammersley has used his Visor , which has a slot for a 56K modem , to file stories from destinations as far flung as Morocco , Thailand and Burma .
He had to smuggle the setup into Burma for an interview with activist and Nobel Peace Prizewinner Aung San Suu Kyi .
" It 's illegal to be a journalist in Burma , " Hammersley explained . "
If you 're caught carrying a laptop through customs they deport you or imprison you .
But it 's quite easy to smuggle a Palm through in the pockets of your cargo trousers . "
Hammersley said his colleagues are so impressed with his lightweight setup , the Times -- a conservative organ that frowns on fads -- is talking about similarly equipping all its journalists .
" Compare a $ 300 Palm to a $ 3,000 laptop , " Hammersley said . "
Not only is it lighter , it 's much easier and less expensive to replace a lost Palm or a keyboard . "
But the miniature setup has its downside .
" It 's impossible to get any work done for the first five minutes because someone always says , ' What 's that ?
' "
President who ? : Typical of nerds , there was little talk at PalmSource of the incredible twists and turns in the presidential election , but the engrossing Palm-vs.-Pocket PC debate rages on .
Michael Mace , Palm 's chief competitive officer , said Microsoft has been aggressively feeding Palm-vs.-Pocket-PC stories to the press in an effort to position the company as the leading challenger , when in fact , they are n't .
The strategy is to make Microsoft look like Palm 's major competitor , instead of Symbian and Research in Motion , which runs the Blackberry pager .
" They are trying to make themselves number two when they are number three and fading , " Mace said .




Palm Inventor : Yes It Can

SANTA CLARA -- Jeff Hawkins , the father of handheld computing , used his characteristic tongue-in-cheek humor to respond to problems that Palm 's competitors say could cripple the platform .
In a lighthearted talk at the PalmSource developers conference , Hawkins , who co-invented the Palm and now heads Handspring , took on some of the " myths " spread by Palm 's competitors that portray the Palm operating system as doomed by insoluble problems .
Palm is the most popular handheld computing platform .
With more than 10 million devices sold to date , it commands three quarters of the worldwide market for handheld computers .
But Palm faces stiff competition from Microsoft 's Pocket PC , which commands about a quarter of the market , and wireless devices running Symbian 's Epoch software .
According to Hawkins , Palm 's competitors are using a fear , uncertainty and doubt campaign to malign the Palm OS 's ability to support the rapid evolution of handheld devices .
Palm 's competitors say the operating system can n't handle multimedia and it will n't perform more than one task at a time , Hawkins said .
Palm devices also have limited processing power and memory , and are no good for wireless communications .
Hawkins took each myth in turn .
To demonstrate that the Palm can handle multimedia , he used a Handspring Prism handheld to play a snowboarding video and play a pop song .
To show it could handle wireless communications , he plugged a cell phone module into the Prism 's expansion slot and tried to phone Colly Myers , Symbian 's CEO , in London .
Getting only voicemail , Hawkins started a three-way conference call and then sent a Short Messaging Service message .
Hawkins admitted the Palm OS suffered from some problems with multitasking , and limited memory and processor speed .
the ability to do more than one thing at a time
But he said they were irritations , not crippling limitations .
" All these things you can work around , " he said . "
The bottom line is none of this gets in our way of building user-friendly products .
They are annoyances at best . "
" We do n't see any products on the horizon that we can n't build using the Palm OS , " he added .
Tackling " further tales from the dark side , " Hawkins turned to a Magic Eight Ball application running on the Handspring Prism for answers .
He asked whether most Palm applications were trivial shareware , as competitors have alleged .
The Magic Eight Ball program replied with a " nag screen " announcing it was unregistered shareware , and that Hawkins should send in his shareware fee .
Hawkins then asked whether Handspring had hired away all the best talent from Palm .
The Eight Ball said no -- in fact he had hired all of their best talent and even more .




Video Games in the Crosshairs

WASHINGTON -- Computer games endorsed by gunmakers are " marketing tools to attract new customers for the gun industry , " a gun control group contended Thursday .
A study prepared by the Violence Policy Center , a Washington-based gun control group , examined several computer games endorsed by the Remington Arms Company and Colt Manufacturing Company , as well as Guns & Ammo magazine .
Several games , which feature the guns sold by the manufacturers , also contained digital and print gun catalogs .
They also had no age rating designed like television and movie ratings to warn parents about objectionable content , the study said .
The study 's authors also objected to the games ' content .
One game , Remington Top Shot , features human targets for the player to shoot at .
The game calls them " interactive targets . "
Colt 's Wild West Shootout instructs the player that " you 're the law and you carry the firepower to back it up . "
It includes a shootout in a church .
" These games , marketed as children 's toys and sold through channels such as eToys.com are , in fact , marketing tools to attract new customers for the gun industry , " said Marty Langley , the study 's author and an analyst at the Violence Policy Center .
Representatives from Remington and Colt did not immediately return telephone calls Thursday .
" You 're looking at just another half-baked report from people who will n't stop until all firearms are illegal , " National Rifle Association spokesman Bill Powers said .
Congress and federal regulators in September threatened that if entertainment companies failed to police themselves and stop advertising violent content to children , the government would step in.
Rep. Ed Markey said Thursday the games could contribute to more gun violence by youngsters .
D-Massachusetts
" When violent video games are used as the vehicle for making the sales pitch , you have ... a combination designed to train the child to accept handgun use as a reasonable way to settle a score and to educate the child about the virtues of a particular brand that he might want to use to do the deed and where to find it , " he said .
The computer game industry has exploded in recent years and is expected to soon outpace the motion picture industry in total revenue .
Retail sales of computer and video games reached $ 6.1 billion in 1999 , and 60 percent of all Americans over the age of five play the games , according to a survey by Hart Research Associates .
Gun control advocates say they are especially incensed because the games appeal to a younger and broader audience .
About 40 percent of video game players are under 18 , younger than the minimum age required to purchase a firearm .




Safer Calls , or Selling Fear ?

To the dismay of the cellular phone industry , a company recently introduced a device that it says would shield the human body from the " biological effects " from cell phones .
EMX Corporation , a developer of technology that mitigates the effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields , unveiled this week a microchip that -- inserted in a cell phone 's battery -- protects the caller 's body cells from the electromagnetic fields emitted by the cell phone .
The introduction of this new product underscores the ongoing question as to whether radiation emitted from cell phones is a health hazard .
The cellular phone industry -- backed by the opinions of researchers who do n't believe it 's so -- maintains that no evidence has been provided to conclude that cell phone use has deleterious effects .
Similar to the " scrambling of a television signal , " the EMF BioChip emits a random electrical impulse or " noise " to overpower the electromagnetic signal emitted by the cell phone and reduce the effect on the caller 's body .
EMX Corporation will n't go so far as to say unequivocally that signals emitted by cell phones could harm the body , but it touts research from European and North American universities backing its technology .
Researchers from Catholic University of America , University of Western Ontario , Columbia University , Aalborg University in Denmark and the University of Washington in Seattle found that cell phone EMF signals " bring the cells of the brain or other parts of the body ... into a state of stress or shock , " according to EMX Corporation founder and CEO Dr. Thomas Magnussen .
" You could see cells changing its metabolism and release stress proteins , which is a protective mechanism , " Dr. Magnussen said . "
sic
So the cells are truly bothered by this electromagnetic radiation from cell phones . "
However , members of the cellular phone industry and other scientists are incredulous , saying the amount of radioactive frequency signals emitted by cell phones is too weak to have any effect on the body .
" No reputable physician -- with nothing to gain one way or another and if they do n't own stock in the company -- will tell you radiation at those wavelengths can cause a biological response at all , " said Dr. Richard Freeman , chairman of the applied sciences department at the University of California at Davis . "
Any of these studies that get reported , I would be willing without knowing about the study , to say it 's just fog . "




Hotmail : You Get What You Pay For

If you 're a Hotmail user experiencing the free service 's latest shortcomings , you 're just going to have to tough it out .
That 's pretty much Microsoft 's advice to the 68 million folks using its free Hotmail e-mail service .
The software behemoth says there 's no customer support phone line because of " security reasons " and users that e-mail for help receive a generic message asking them to log on later .
There have been a number of problems , from not being able to get onto the Hotmail homepage to not being able to log in once you 're there .
And if you are lucky enough to get into your account , it 's taken some customers up to a minute to perform even the simplest task .
" I tried e-mailing them , and they sent back an auto response , with a list of e-mail addresses that I should contact , " said Geoff Haisty , a frustrated Hotmail user from Chapel Hill , North Carolina .
From there , it only became more frustrating .
" I e-mailed two of those , which also sent back auto responses , " said Haisty , a special projects team leader for GoTo.com . "
They both contained a URL to a support form that supposedly submits to a live human .
I tried the URL , but the first time I submitted , the request returned an error , so I had to try again .
The second time it got through , but I have no response yet . "
Haisty is part of a cluster of users plagued with Hotmail 's latest headaches .
Since Sunday , an undisclosed number of users have not been able to get to their Hotmail home pages or log onto their accounts .
Users who successfully log in must wait 30 seconds to a minute for any task to be completed .
Hotmail representatives did n't have a novel reason for the email meltdown .
Once again , the servers hosting the e-mail accounts are being repaired .




Solving China 's Dot-Com Puzzle

HONG KONG -- Entrepreneurs who thought creating a dot-com in the United States was a risky proposition are cautiously viewing China 's labyrinth of business rules , cultural subtleties and government censorship .
A new book hopes to give foreign companies a fighting chance of surviving in the largest potential market of Internet users .
Graham Earnshaw , born in England and a former Beijing journalist-turned-Internet entrepreneur , penned The Life and Death of A Dot-com in China to give advice and spread his optimism about the region 's potential .
Earnshaw 's 330-page book pulls together practical information from professionals that includes chapters on foreign investment in ISPs , real estate issues , licensing agreements and intellectual property .
since software and content piracy is a well-documented problem
Earnshaw 's book , published by Hong Kong publisher Asia Law & Practice , aspires to be a survival kit for businesses , investors , venture capitalists and dot-com wannabes looking to do business in China .
Earnshaw worked with more than 25 lawyers , accountants , consultants and business people .
" I am full of confidence in the future of the Internet in China , it 's messy and frustrating , but it 's faster than any other place on the planet , " said Earnshaw , who is also a director of the Shanghai lifestyle content site Chinanow.com . "
China is a very volatile , but highly entrepreneurial place , and the Internet will be at least as important to China as it is in the U.S. "
Recent Internet censorship regulations that the government passed have perplexed investors and industry players wanting to build markets there .
Under the code , any online content that violates the state or is anti-government is subject to heavy fines and even imprisonment .
Consequently , ISPs and content players have been put under immense pressure to curtail their content .
However , this has n't stopped investors from looking into China since it is expected to be a business hotbed once the country enters the World Trade Organization .
China 's attempt at entry into the WTO , which has been languishing for more than 14 years , is currently stalled over a wealth of concerns about the details of its entry requirements .
As a whole , China has agreed to open most sectors to more foreign investors and businesses .
For example , Wu Jichuan , the minister of Industry Information , told an audience at the ITU Telecom Asia 2000 conference in Hong Kong this week that China is committed to opening up its telecom industry and allowing more foreign investment and ownership in local companies .
However , certain groups such as the European Union are looking for further clarification on China 's commitments to opening up its insurance and distribution sectors , and Washington politicians are voicing concern over China 's human rights record as well .
Earnshaw said businesses in China must interpret statements from government officials that are often hard to define .
Foreigners who have turned away from investing in the Internet in the PRC because they have been frightened off by the rules do n't really understand the environment , Earnshaw said .
People 's Republic of China
" It 's not a crackdown , it 's a lot of regulations .
The government understands that information on the Internet is not controllable , but they 're trying to change the pace of change , " he said . "
The basic principle in China is you can say it , it 's just how you say it -- it 's a Confucian situation . "
where people agree to comply while finding workarounds
Earnshaw said he is worried about the regulations on an Internet community that is in many ways just beginning .
The Internet has had a much greater impact on establishing communications between ordinary people and businesses in China than it has in the West where free speech has been permitted .
E-mail , chat rooms and bulletin boards have given the society an important outlet to express ideas and information , since traditionally the government has kept a tight rein on the media .




MIT Entrants Go to Head of Class

Nobody 's getting rich on the money won in the MIT Entrepreneurial Competition .
The $ 30,000 first prize barely covers the cost of tuition at the university , let alone providing enough seed money to launch a successful business .
But a decade after MIT began bestowing honors for startups with smart business plans , it 's clear that winning , or even just entering , the competition , offers a leg up in the tech business world .
Let 's face it , people -- and more importantly , venture capitalists and media giants -- come calling when they hear you 've just been named best and brightest by the prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
" The competition gives you exposure .
The finals were on Wednesday , and by Thursday we were already on CNN , " said Zoran Zdraveski , one of the founders of Genigma -- the company , then known as Eyegen , which won the most recent award .
Genigma produces EyeGenRed , a dye that makes DNA visible to the naked eye .
" After the competition we were approached by every large in our area , " said Zdraveski .
venture capital firm
" We would not have been so successful &#91;if we had n't entered&#93 ; .
...
We were approached by people who wanted to be a part of our team because we won .
This would have been harder to attract with no track record -- this applies to the investors as well , " said Zdraveski .
Historically , even the losers have done well .
Just entering the competition helps tech companies get their business plans into action .
Lexicus Longhand , a 1991 entrant , is a good example .
" Losers actually do quite well .
Going through the process of the competition is the important thing , " said Ronjon Nag , founder of Lexicus -- which originally produced handwriting-recognition technology for bank checks , then evolved to do the same for PDAs .
" I tell other entrants that it 's the entering that matters -- the experience it affords you , " Nag said . "
The competition helped us sort out what ideas would work and what would n't , so that when we got the company going proper we did so on a much better footing . "
Once the company was up and running the press came running , too . "
We got a lot of coverage -- I was on the cover of Fortune magazine , " said Nag .
The company did so well that Motorola snapped it up in November of 1993 .
Lexicus still exists as a division of Motorola .
MOT
Lexicus Longhand 's story was representative of many contacted for this story .
Here 's the skinny on some of the other entrants .
A finalist in the 1994 competition was Banta Integrated Media .
They entered the competition as New Frontiers Information Corp.
The company was acquired by Banta Corporation at the end of 1995 .
BN
Banta Integrated Media currently provides software and e-business solutions for digital content management , e-commerce , and Internet-based cross-media publishing .
Its parent , Banta Corporation , had a net income , in 1999 , of $ 16 million , showing a one-year net income growth of 69.8 percent .




Mega-Corps Fawn Over Linux

A few years ago , a job at a giant computing company such as Hewlett Packard would have been a practically unthinkable career move for a die-hard Linux supporter like Bruce Perens .
Likewise , HP would n't have had many help-wanted ads for experts in the open-source movement .
" There was no business connection whatsoever , and frankly no one wanted to hear about it , " said Perens , a founder of the now-defunct incubator Linux Capital Group , who dates his involvement in the open-source platform back to 1994 .
Times change .
Last month , Perens scaled back his role as a startup entrepreneur -- dropping all but one company , open-source developer Progeny Linux , from his short-lived incubator business . "
It was an incubator that mostly used other peoples ' money , and we were n't getting it , " he explained .
So Perens opted for a day job , and agreed to become the Linux evangelist at Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett Packard .
HP
There , his job is to school HP 's 80,000-plus employees in the virtues of Linux , and , at the same time , to help pump up the company 's image as a supporter of all things open-source .
It 's a job description that Perens shares with open-source supporters at several large U.S. technology firms , including , on the opposite coast , IBM .
IBM
Big Blue 's unofficial evangelist is Linux guru Irving Wladawsky-Berger , who goes by the official title of vice president of technology and strategy .
Similar , though smaller , efforts are underway in Texas , as Compaq and Dell move to up their profile in the Linux community .
CPQ
DELL
Witness Compaq 's dedicated Linux website , which comes complete with a color photo of penguins frolicking on a distant beach .
Dell 's efforts include a partnership with Eazel , a Silicon Valley Linux startup , to develop desktop systems powered by the open-source platform .
Increasingly , open-source evangelism efforts are becoming backed up with cash .
A case in point this week was IBM .
Chairman Lou Gerstner announced , at a New York investment conference , that the company will invest $ 1 billion in its worldwide Linux operations in 2001 .
But the effect of Gerstner 's big investment plans on the scores of smaller Linux firms was unclear .
IBM 's announcement initially helped push up share prices for Linux competitors such as Red Hat and VA Linux .
But after two days , the rally proved short-lived .
The stocks dropped on Thursday , despite an earnings report from Red Hat that exceeded Wall Street expectations , and their prices were mixed on Friday .
Currently , the few Linux companies that launched stock offerings in the glitzy IPO market of 1999 and early 2000 are trading close to their all-time lows .
VA Linux , which set a new record for first-day gains in its debut last year , is currently selling for $ 12 a share , less than one-twentieth of its former high .
LNUX
Red Hat , at under $ 9 , is way off from its $ 148 high .
RHAT
Software developer Caldera , at $ 3 , is down from a 52-week high of $ 33 .
CALD
Regaining their stature as Wall Street darlings will be a difficult task .




Long Live the Fruit Fly

WASHINGTON -- Mutation of a gene whimsically named " I 'm not dead yet " can double the life span of fruit flies , a laboratory discovery that researchers said may lead to drugs to help people live longer and , perhaps , even lose weight .
Researchers at the University of Connecticut Health Center have found that the life span of fruit flies was extended from an average of 37 days to 70 days when a gene was modified on a single chromosome .
Some flies in the study lived 110 days .
The same long-life gene exists in humans , said Dr. Stephen L. Helfand , senior author of the study , and " offers a target for future drug therapies aimed at extending life . "
In human terms , a doubled life span would be about 150 years .
Helfand said the gene mutation appears to work by restricting calorie absorption on a cellular level -- in effect , putting the cells on a diet .
This raises the possibility , he said , of one day developing a pill that would both extend life and control weight .
" From what we know about this gene , that makes perfect sense , " he said .
Helfand said a key finding of the study , which was appearing Friday in the journal Science , is that not only did the fruit flies live longer , but they also seemed to maintain a high quality of life .
" It is not an empty or hollow increase in life span .
It prolongs active adult life , and I think , delays the onset of aging , " he said .
Some life-extension studies showed that animals tended to trade vigor and energy for a longer life , he said .
But the mutant flies " do well throughout their longer life , " Helfand said . "
By the time that 80 to 90 percent of normal flies are dead , these mutants are still doing just fine . "
Blanka Rogina , a co-author of the study , said female flies with the mutated genes were able to reproduce throughout life .
They had the energy for the fruit flies complex courtship ritual and could lay up to 2,000 eggs in their lifetime , compared with about 1,300 eggs normally , she said .
The long-life gene was named for a comical line -- " I 'm not dead yet " -- from a Monty Python movie , Helfand said .
The gene 's name was suggested by co-author Robert A. Reenan and has been shortened to " Indy . "
" In academic circles , " explained Helfand , " sophomoric humor , such as in Monty Python , is very common . "
There have been other studies that found long-life genes in fruit flies and nematodes .
There also have been experiments in mice that show calorie restriction -- a severe diet -- can extend life by up to 50 percent .
But Huber Warner , associate director for research into the biology of aging at the National Institute of Aging , said the Indy gene discovery is more significant because " it may be a different way to get the same effect that caloric restriction achieved in mice and other organisms . "
He said it may be possible to develop a drug that inhibits metabolism in the same way as the mutated Indy gene .
Such a drug would have to be tested extensively in animals to assure that it is safe , Warner said .
" If you wanted to slow metabolism in people , this research suggests that this could be a way to do it , " he said . "
It is strictly theoretical right now , but it is a possibility . "
Helfand and his colleagues discovered the livelong gene by chance .
He said they were screening a strain of fruit flies in another study and found that flies were living much longer than normal .
They isolated the Indy gene and then tested it in a number of different laboratory fruit fly strains .
In all cases , it extended life .
But Helfand said the researchers discovered that if the gene is mutated too much , it actually shortens life .
The normal gene is on two chromosomes of the fruit fly .
If one of these genes is altered , thus reducing the strength of the gene , then the flies enjoyed a long life .
If both genes were knocked out altogether , said Helfand , the flies actually died sooner , perhaps starving to death .
" If we restrict a little bit there is a big advantage , " said Helfand . "
the gene
But if we make an animal that has only the mutated gene , we find that the animal lives a shorter than normal . "




The Casino in the Sky

TOULOUSE , France -- Airbus gave final approval Tuesday to a plan to build the world 's largest passenger plane , a superjumbo jet that will hold 555 passengers and can come with bars and casinos .
Airbus hopes the new double-decker A380 will give it a competitive edge over its rival , Seattle-based Boeing Co.
" This decision heralds a new era in the history of flight , with the introduction into service of the world 's 21st century jetliner in early 2006 , " the company said in a statement , announcing that its supervisory board approved the plans Tuesday .
So far , Airbus has received 50 firm orders and 42 options for the superjumbo , which will have larger cabins , more floor space and staircases , and can be equipped with bars , casinos and lounges .
" We can not be more proud of the product we developed , " Manfred Bischoff , chairman of the Airbus supervisory board , said . "
We intend to once more set a standard for quality and efficiency . "
The board gave the green light for the $ 12 billion project at its headquarters in Toulouse in south-central France .
The board is made up of top executives from the two companies that are the sole shareholders in the consortium European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company , with an 80 percent holding , and Britain 's BAE Systems , with 20 percent .
The superjumbo will be a direct challenge to Boeing 's dominance of the long-haul , high-capacity market with its fleet of 747s , and it intensifies the rivalry between the two manufacturers , who are banking on conflicting forecasts for air travel in the 21st century .
Airbus says the demand for larger planes is set to grow .
It forecasts that the number of airliners in service with 400 seats or more will rise to 1,235 over the 20 years .
Boeing argues that airlines are more interested in smaller planes with the range to bypass major hubs on nonstop flights to mid-sized and smaller cities .
Boeing 's biggest jet at the moment is the 747-400 , which can carry 416 passengers .
" The announcement today is just another indication of how dynamic the commercial jet transport market is right now , " said John Dern , a Boeing Commercial Airplane Group spokesman in Seattle .
" Airbus is taking one strategic approach and Boeing is taking another , and time will tell , " he said . "
All we can do is what we hear the airlines are telling us and what the data is telling us about how new routes are developing .
Passenger preference is for direct nonstop service . "
In 2000 , Boeing committed to produce longer-range versions of its 767 and 777 jets , designed to make non-stop flights to smaller cities .
This year it received 117 orders for the 777 .
Boeing also has plans for a stretch version of its 747 jet to seat some 520 people .
It has not yet received any orders for the new jet , which it estimates will cost between $ 4 billion and $ 6 billion to develop .
Airbus officials had said they needed around 50 firm orders to make the A380 project economically viable , a target it met Friday when Virgin Atlantic Airways announced an order for six jets and options on six others in a deal worth more than $ 3.8 billion .
The biggest A380 order -- 12 planes -- came from Australia 's Qantas Airlines Ltd. , a Boeing client for more than 40 years .
Other firm orders have come from Singapore Airlines , Air France , Emirates Airlines , and the International Lease Finance Corp.
Germany 's Lufthansa AG and British Airways are in talks about buying the plane .
Airbus has been gradually closing the gap on Boeing since its creation in 1972 , and last year reported significantly more aircraft orders .




Gifts Online : Where to Find ' Em

Holiday gift guides are fine and dandy but most are fairly predictable .
Especially technology ones .
How many gift guides have you seen recommending a Handspring Visor , or a digital camera , or , God forbid , a scooter ?
And so , in an attempt to provide something useful , Wired News has dispensed with the traditional gift guide in favor of a guide to online gift guides .
Trouble is , these days good gift guides are few and far between .
Most are n't that original , or shill for their own e-commerce efforts .
What follows is far from a comprehensive list .
Instead , we 've tried to highlight gift guides that suggest less , well , predictable gifts .
Happy shopping .
Space.com has an unusual gift guide featuring Monolithic Domes , a Mach 5 Racer and a hovercraft .
You may not be able to afford these things , but it makes for interesting reading .
Surprise.com has an interesting gift guide created by its users .
The site -- which does n't actually sell the gifts , just links to them -- has a clever scheme for categorizing recipients : Lives in a Small Apartment ; Wants a Little Peace & Quiet ; Shops Garage Sales .
Gifts are suggested and rated by users , and can be sorted by popularity or price .
The site also keeps track of gifts you have browsed , making it easy to find them if you wander around a bit .
There are some fun ideas here , like the steak branding iron for barbecue cowboys .
PC Magazine 's John Dvorak lists his top 10 ideas for giving tech gifts .
The venerable tech columnist 's suggestions are n't all unique -- he recommends the Visor Prism for starters -- but he does suggest that parents forget about trying to find a Sony PlayStation II and go for a Sega Dreamcast instead .
Sage advice .
With characteristic humor , San Francisco Weekly has a well-rounded lineup of gift ideas .
Slashdot 's guide , commissioned by Wired Magazine , is n't as original as one might hope .
But there are some good ideas buried in the reader comments below the story , if you have the time and patience to go through them .
Worth has a guide to giving it away for those lucky enough to have enough to give away .
The AFL-CIO has some strong ideas about union-friendly holiday shopping , with links to resources for sweat-free shopping and WorkingFamilies.com , which sells only union-made merchandise .
ThinkGeek has some good geeky gift ideas .
We liked the Personal Desktop Refrigerator .
Stupid.com is full of the kind of crap geeks love , like Chokka Ca Ca , Singing Blenders and a Pregnant Woman keychain .
Memepool is an amazing resource for finding offbeat stuff on the Web .
Search the site for words like " gift " and you will be transported to places like Webundies , the " Internet 's largest collection of novelty boxer shorts " ; the Los Angeles County Coroner 's Office gift shop ; or Divine Interventions , a purveyor of blashphemous sex toys .
If you 're looking for what not to buy , there 's ShittyGift.com and Happy Christmas.com 's " Useless gift ideas . "
Spark.com has a mildly amusing Christmas Gift Test . "
Many , many years ago , Joseph and Mary were riding around on donkeys , " the site says . "
Today , Christmas rides our asses in a similar fashion . "
And when you 're thoroughly sick of Christmas shopping , restore a little sanity by exploring the links on Amalthys Consulting 's anti-consumerism page .




German Hate Law : No Denying It

BERLIN -- If this week 's border-transcending ruling by Germany 's highest court proves anything , it 's that an enormous distance remains between advocates of a free Internet and watchdogs against racism and hate-mongering .
The court , called the Bundesgerichtshof , issued a ruling on Tuesday that overturned a lower court ruling , and found that German law applies even to foreigners who post content on the Web in other countries -- so long as that content can be accessed by people inside of Germany .
Specifically , the court found Australian Holocaust-denier Frederick Tben guilty of spreading " Auschwitz lies . "
Tben , who was born in Germany , uses the website of his Australian-based Adelaide Institute to encourage people in the belief that the Holocaust has no historical basis .
International reaction to the ruling differed wildly .
Andy Mueller-Maguhn , a leader of Berlin 's famed Chaos Computer Club hacker collective and a new Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers board member , was blunt in questioning the legitimacy of the ruling .
ICANN
" This German court wants to judge over the whole world in effect , " he said . "
No one knows what it means .
We could easily agree that it seems likely to be a decision made by a judge who does not understand very much . "
Mueller-Maguhn , something of a celebrity in Germany as a technology visionary , plans to take immediate action .
He said he will contact Germany 's highest court on Monday morning and invite someone from the court for a debate before Germany 's legislature on the ruling - and how it should be applied in the future .
" The court decision of the Bundesgerichtshof seems to be the worst Internet-dependent court decision so far , " he said . "
If other countries would take this as an orientation and start to apply their laws on the citizens of other countries acting in their countries , the worldwide free flow of information could lead very fast to an unfree situation in the real world .
" Hopefully will take a minute to think about this . "
the Bundesgerichtshof
Tben himself made a similar argument .
" Germany is trying to rule the world again by saying that the people who access the Internet have no choice , " he told the Associated Press .
But Rabbi Abraham Cooper , Associate Dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles , applauded the court action .
" We commend the German authorities for sticking to their commitment -- it 's their democracy , these are their laws , " he said by phone from California .
" In the first months of this year they had a thousand hate crimes in Germany .
We need to be sensitive to , and grateful to , to the democratic government of Germany when its says ' We have anti-Nazi laws in place and we still need those laws .
' "
" Maybe for those of us who live on the other side of the Atlantic , this seems remote or abstract .
If people are not outraged by the Adelaide website , how about mlking.org ?
That site is hosted by white supremacists .
You can n't outlaw that site .
But it is an early warning to us .
There 's no librarian online .
A kid goes to the Internet and plays Russian Roulette . "
Cooper urges Internet freedom advocates in the United States and elsewhere to keep an open mind on issues that have sprung up only recently with the widespread popularity of the Internet .
" We have to commend the Germans and the French for basically saying ' in our societies , this is how we deal with the problems of hate , racism and Holocaust denial .
You in America have your own laws , but at least respect our values .
' "
" It was their blood that was shed .
What 's theoretical for us is very real over there ... the Internet community is going to have to address these issues in a less contentious way . "
The German authorities arrested Tben in 1999 for distributing Holocaust-denying leaflets on a visit to Germany .
The lower court found Tben , 56 , guilty of offending the memory of the dead , but ruled that German law against inciting racial hatred could not be applied to content on a foreign website .
He was sentenced to 10 months in prison , and served seven months of that term before returning to Australia .
Germany 's Federal Court of Justice took a major interpretive step beyond the lower-court ruling this week , however .
It found that sweeping German legislation passed in the wake of World War II that banned the Nazi party and any glorification of it -- including denial of the Holocaust -- can be applied to Internet content that originates outside of the country 's borders .
Tben left Germany for Australia when he was 10 years old and went on to earn a Ph.D. in English and Philosophy from Melbourne University .
He told the Australian press this week that he believes he could spend up to five years in jail if he returns to Germany .
He said he 's willing to serve more time in German jails for his beliefs , but does not relish the thought of what might happen to him in such circumstances .
" I would not be safe in a German jail , " he told Australia 's ABC television . "
They would eliminate me and this gives me reason to think it would be foolish if I did go back . "
Although Tben could theoretically face extradition , so far Australia reports no extradition request from Germany .
He could face a more immediate legal challenge from within his own country .
Australia 's Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission issued an order in October instructing Tben to apologize to the Jewish community and remove at least some of the content from his website .
Tben refused .
The importance of the German court ruling may be in emboldening Australian authorities to make a more aggressive approach to what it considers offensive content .
Cooper of the Wiesenthal Center and others emphasize that a gradual and ongoing process of international consultation needs to occur to shape a new consensus on how to deal with such touchy issues of freedom and regulation .
" The basic approach to it , in our view , is not necessarily a whole ton of UNESCO- and UN-sponsored rules that would be more satisfactory to dictators than students , " Cooper said . "
It is to look for more creative leadership on the issue on the part of the collective Internet community .
" I think if we talk about the exchange of ideas , including the uncomfortable ones , we all know that at the end of the day , everyone can get up on the Internet .
You can n't keep them off .
They have to have a coherent policy , and that does n't exist yet . "
Germany , too , is arguing for more international coordination and in fact , the Wiesenthal Center hosted a conference on the topic of the Internet and hate speech last summer in Berlin , all part of an ongoing effort to encourage creative thinking .
" The best chance to fight against right-wing material on the Internet is on an international level , " Hans-Gertz Lange , a spokesman for Germany 's criminal investigative agency , told the IDG News Service .
" But when I think of the U.S. or Canada , it 's extremely unlikely that they 'll change their laws in accordance with ours .
Their concept of freedom of speech is tied up with their history ; our laws against incitement to racial hatred are tied up with ours . "
Michel Friedman , a leader of Germany 's Jewish community , also believes in inflexibility in responding to the power of the Internet to spread hate .
" is one of the communications basics number one in the far right scene , not only in Germany but in the whole of Europe and even America , " he said . "
The Net
It 's communication place number one for the exchange of neo-Nazi thinking in the world .
" This is very difficult to handle .
But I believe we have to be very creative next time on that issue .
Worldwide , we try to work on this issue .
We are just in the beginning . "




' Nature ' Snatches Genome Map ?

Rumors of where the Human Genome Project 's groundbreaking research paper will wind up are flying faster than RNA messages .
Earlier this week , the word on the street was the paper from the government-funded consortium would be submitted to the journal Science for simultaneous publication with research from Celera Genomics , a for-profit company that created its own human genome map .
Now HGP officials say that 's definitely not happening , and more than likely their paper will go to the journal Nature -- if only because the Human Genome Project leaders were miffed by a recent agreement between Celera and Science .
There are other scientific journals , but none with the cachet of the above-mentioned two .
" The issue does n't have anything to do with Celera , it has to do with Science and the fact that we just disagree with data restrictions , " said John McPherson , co-director of the genome sequencing center at Washington University in St. Louis , Missouri .
McPherson is the lead author on one of about 10 papers in total he confirmed have now been submitted to an unidentified journal based on the HGP research .
The special arrangement with Science would allow the company to monitor access to its database of gene information by hosting it on the Celera website .
The agreement is unusual because gene researchers in the past have typically submitted their data to GenBank , a free , government-funded database .
Some scientists are worried that the move could set a precedent that would limit scientific progress , because it 's a departure from providing unrestricted data for other scientists to use and replicate .
As a result , HGP researchers are choosing not to submit to Science what many think is the most important science since James Watson and Francis Crick described the structure of DNA in Nature in 1953 .
One source who asked not to be identified said that instead of Science the research will be submitted to Nature , but a spokeswoman at the National Human Genome Research Institute , the main organization overseeing the HGP , said the researchers would rather stick with custom and wait until publication to make any announcements .
" We will continue on the path of not disclosing where we 've submitted , because that 's good old tradition in scientific publishing , " said NHGRI spokeswoman Kathy Hudson .
Researchers traditionally wait until the publication date to disclose the specifics of when and where , the reason being that after submission , a paper must go through a rigorous peer-review process and publication is not guaranteed .
Celera officials dispensed with that tradition by announcing in a press release last week that they had submitted their paper to Science .
In June , the rival genome mapping teams surprised the scientific community by ending an ongoing race to finish the maps , and announcing together that they each had completed a " working draft . "
At the time they suggested a dual publication would happen by the end of the year .




Happy Holidays ...
You 're Fired

On the phone , Marc Sason sounds like a pretty nice guy .
He 's intelligent , articulate , and seems to have a good sense of humor .
Sason 's also got experience working on the Web .
So when he got laid off from his online content-producing job at SavvyHealth.com a month ago , one might have guessed that his hiatus would have been short-lived .
But it was n't .
Sason and the thousands of other Web workers who found themselves jobless in the past few months are realizing that it 's unlikely they 'll be snapped up by another online company before the holidays are out .
And stuck with high rents and bereft of salaries and stock options , they 're saying they do n't have much to celebrate in this new era of dried up dot-coms .
According to the outplacement firm Challenger , Gray & Christmas , 8,329 people were laid off from Internet businesses nationwide in November alone , more than in any other industry .
OK -- so worrying about the holiday-time hardships of online professionals probably is n't as noble as worrying about , say , homeless people .
But all nobility aside , this year has been one of the worst for online professionals , not only in the number of layoffs but also in the timing .
Sason , for instance , was laid off just a few days before Thanksgiving . "
I was working from home that day , " he described it . "
Then I got a telephone call from the CEO .
And he was very -- you know when you 're going to call a girl and ask her out ?
And you 're like , you keep putting the question off ?
That was what he was like with me . "
Sason and three others had to go , the CEO said , because SavvyHealth 's funding was ailing . "
They did n't tell me that when they hired me , though , " he said . "
They said things like , ' To the best of our knowledge , I do n't think we 'll run out of money ' -- using words that 'd pretty much save their ass either way . "
Now , Sason is looking for another job , but he says it is n't easy . "
I 've had a few interviews , but I hear that a lot of the companies are winding down their operations for the end of the year , " he said .
Sason suspects , consequently , that he 'll be jobless at least until the New Year , but he 's keeping his chin up : " What am I going to do ?
Cry ? " he asked with Alfred E. Neuman-like confidence when questioned about his thoughts on paying a high San Francisco rent .
Fortunately , Sason did his holiday shopping already , taking a loan from future earnings . "
All I can say is , thank God for credit cards , " he said .
Others among the recently pink-slipped also said that this holiday was looking down -- but some had plans for getting out of their slump .
" In true dot-com fashion , I 'm -- what else ?
-- starting up my own company , " said Steve Foerster , who was just laid off from his job at E-gold.com .




She 'll Go Down in History

The famous British tabloid press has tracked down a London woman whose lewd e-mail exchange with a boyfriend was circulated to millions around the world like a virus .
Claire Swire , whose explicit exchange in a private e-mail flooded into millions of inboxes around the world , is to be featured on British television Friday night and has reportedly sold her story to the Mail on Sunday .
The Londoner gained national notoriety this week when an e-mail exchange with her boyfriend about oral sex was forwarded by her boyfriend to some of his male friends .
Within minutes , the friends had forwarded it to their friends , and within hours the exchange had spread across the globe .
The Register , which picked up the story first , published details of the exchange but found it too hard to swallow and concluded it was a hoax .
But the episode made the front pages of many of Britains newspapers on Friday , including the Guardian , the Times and the BBC , and Claire Swire shot to fame .
Hoax or not , her boyfriend , Bradley Chiat , may be canned on Monday .
His employers , Norton Rose , a posh law firm , takes a dim view of obscene , non-work-related e-mail -- and presumably , the unwanted attention of the international press .




Indies File In Against MP3.com

Just when MP3.com thought it was safe to go back into the streams , Emusic.com filed a copyright infringement suit against the digital music company .
Filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York , the suit claims the my.mp3.com streaming audio service allows users to access music from Emusic 's collection without the proper licensing agreement .
" Although MP3.com has entered into settlement agreements with the five major record labels , they have chosen to ignore their infringing actions with respect to independent labels , " Emusic.com CEO Gene Hoffman said in a written statement . "
Emusic strongly supports the rights of music fans to have access to convenient , inexpensive digital music -- as well as the rights of all labels and artists to chose how and where their music is used . "
Six other label partners were party to the suit as well : Fearless Records , Fuel 2000 Records , Gig Records , Invisible Records , SpinART Records , and Victory Records .
Emusic has exclusive rights to 13,000 albums from 600 labels , although the company was unsure as to the number of albums MP3.com had made available to users .
The lawsuit comes just a month after MP3.com had negotiated its final settlement with the five major record labels and the music publishers over similar claims .
Users who sign up for the my.mp3.com service can stream music from MP3.com 's database to Internet-enabled devices .
But getting the service fully operational has proven to be difficult for MP3.com as the company has faced continued legal challenges from the independent label community .
In May , TVT Records filed a similar suit against the company , piggybacking on a New York district court 's finding that MP3.com violated the copyrights of the five major labels with the introduction of its streaming music service .
On November 17 -- one day after MP3.com settled its final copyright infringement suit with those major labels -- Santa Monica 's Engstrom , Lipscomb & Lack filed a class-action copyright infringement suit on behalf of the independent Unity Entertainment Corporation and other unnamed independent labels .
MP3.com had halted access to the my.mp3.com service on May 10 after legal action was taken by the major-label music industry .
The service re-launched in December after the company negotiated settlements with the major labels and publishers , prompting the latest lawsuit .
MP3.com and Emusic were unavailable for comment .




Appliances Work the Web

NEW YORK -- If there 's one word to characterize the emerging iAppliances category , it 's variety .
At the iAppliances conference this week , companies showed off a range of MP3 players , set-top boxes , WAP phones , pagers , handheld devices and Web terminals that will be gracing the well-connected home during early 2001 .
If you 've ever tried to view a Web page over a handheld device -- or , worse yet , a smart phone -- you were probably disappointed to see that you got nowhere near a full view of the page .
InViso , of Sunnyvale , California , takes care of that with its new display technology .
The company offers " a no-compromise view of the information you had on your desk , but it fits in your pocket , " said President and CEO Joy Weiss .
The eCase , for example , puts a postage-stamp-sized display into a handheld device that runs Windows CE .
Hold the device close to your eye , and that diminutive screen provides you with the equivalent of a 19-inch SVGA display .
The eCase can be used to read blueprints out in the field or to access Acrobat documents on the road , but is not recommended for prolonged use .
For longer reading periods , slip on inViso 's eShades .
They look like an oversized pair of wraparound sunglasses , but like the eCase , they provide you with a full view of Web pages , as well as DVD movies , games and other content .
InViso is also investigating the possibility of embedding its displays into digital cameras , handsets , and monocular and binocular headsets .
Trimble , also based in Sunnyvale , makes position-aware global positioning satellite applications that take advantage of GPS data .
The company currently concentrates on engineering/construction , agriculture and fleet management .
Trimble 's FirstGPS technology can give farmers a finer degree of information about water , fertilizer or chemical needs of their crops .
Where farmers had previously measured yields in bushels per acre , Trimble 's GPS technology lets them measure bushels per square meter , according to David M. Hall , senior vice president of marketing and development .
When managing fleets of ambulances , the GPS technology can have life-saving benefits , Hall said .
One hospital cut its time to dispatch ambulances from three minutes to 17 seconds , he claimed .
The company is also working on getting its navigation systems into cars , partnering with automotive electronics manufacturers that produce components for Mercedes-Benz , Volkswagen , Audi , Toyota , BMW , Porsche and other car makers .
Hall says Trimble 's technology cuts power use of GPS systems down from what had been one watt two years ago to only 30 milowatts .




Knowing When Vesuvius Will Erupt

SAN FRANCISCO -- A new generation of imaging satellites that measure changes in the Earth 's surface with millimeter accuracy will help scientists create an early-warning network for volcanic eruptions , scientist said on Friday .
A worldwide emergency network could be set up within a decade and save thousands of lives threatened by massively destructive eruptions , scientists told the annual meeting of the American Geophysical Union .
Scientists said volcanology is undergoing " a revolution " that -- in stark contrast to today -- will give people plenty of advance warning of volcanic eruptions .
" Volcanoes are something , we all believe , we will be able to predict in the future , " said Howard Zebker , a geophysicist at Stanford University .
Over the next 10 years , various space agencies , including NASA , the European Space Agency and the Japanese agency , will launch a constellation of extraordinarily sensitive satellites .
The satellites will allow scientists to measure millimeter deformations on the surface of the Earth 's 600 active volcanoes .
They will also be used for measuring the movement of ice flows , glaciers and tectonic plates .
The measurements will let scientists know when magma -- molten rock from the Earth 's core -- starts moving upwards toward the surface .
Deformations of the volcano 's surface that is caused by the magma may give months , possibly years , of advance warning of an eruption .
At present , the science of predicting volcanic eruptions is one of informed guesswork .
Volcanoes are so unpredictable , they often erupt without warning .
Currently , scientists are lucky if they can make a prediction weeks ahead of a major blow .
Early warning signs include a growing lava dome , and , naturally , a lot of smoke , ash and fire .
But eruptions frequently strike without warning and can be immensely destructive .
An eruption in Colombia in 1991 claimed 23,000 lives .
Chances are , Popocatepetl in Mexico City , Vesuvius in Italy , or Ranier outside Seattle will blow in the next decade , said John Fink , a geophysicist from Arizona State University .
" We really have no idea when volcanoes are going to erupt , " Fink said .
Volcanoes can also bring down airliners .
Volcanic ash easily clogs jet engines .
Many major airline routes pass over active volcanoes .
" We have had quite a few cases of near misses in the past decade , " Fink said . "
This can happen pretty much at any time . "
Many scientists hope the millimeter accuracy of the next generation of imaging satellites will also lead to better earthquake prediction .
But the movements of Earth 's tectonic plates are much more minute than the movements caused by huge plugs of rising magma .
" Plate motion is really subtle , " Zebker said . "
It 's at the same rate as fingernails grow .
It 's currently under our radar . "
As well as being cheaper and easier to monitor volcanoes from space , it 's also a lot safer .
Zebker said at least one volcanologist a year is killed while studying a volcano .
Advances in satellite technology will be married to other developments in volcanic monitoring -- including sensitive seismometers to measure earth tremors , strain gauges that can tell the stress on rocks , and a range of other instruments for detecting changes in temperature and atmospheric gas .
Scientists are even developing computer visualization and modeling techniques to predict which direction the volcano will blow , where the lava will run and how far out the blanket of dust might settle .




CMGI Needs New COO

The head of CMGI , the Internet holding company that tanked in 2000 , told angry shareholders the firm was looking for a chief operating officer .
CMGI
" I do n't pretend to be an operations person for this company , " CMGI chief executive David Wetherell told the annual meeting .
The company 's stock plummeted to a new low Wednesday of $ 5-1/2 on the Nasdaq , after hitting a high of $ 163-1/8 earlier this year .
On Monday , the formerly high-flying Internet incubator reported a net loss of $ 636.6 million or $ 2.07 a share , compared with a loss of $ 117.4 million or 54 cents a share for the year earlier period .
Andover , Massachusetts-based CMGI owns the AltaVista Internet search site and 77 percent of Engage .
- - -
What 's Happening With Quepasa ?
Spanish-language website Quepasa.com said Wednesday it had received a delisting notice from the Nasdaq because its stock has not maintained a minimum bid price of $ 1.00 over the previous 30 consecutive trading days as required by Nasdaq rules .
It said its stock could be delisted as of Feb. 6 , 2001 if the bid price of its common stock does not trade above $ 1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days before then .
PASA
The Phoenix-based company , which targets the U.S. Hispanic market , said it has no plans to appeal the decision and said it intends to apply for listing on the over-the-counter bulletin board market if it has to delist .
- - -
Picking their scabs : The Seattle Times , one of two Seattle newspapers embroiled in a month-long strike , said Wednesday that it plans to begin hiring permanent replacements for striking workers .
The Post-Intelligencer said it was considering a similar move .
Workers criticized the Times ' move as a possibly illegal attempt to break the 1,059-member Pacific Northwest Newspaper Guild , which went on strike last month .
H. Mason Sizemore , the Times ' president , said his paper had lost millions of dollars in advertising and circulation revenue and has no choice but to resume normal operations using permanent workers .
- - -
Microsoft to bump up salaries : With profits falling short of expectations and its stock trading at a two-year low , Microsoft plans to slash some spending while boosting pay to keep its workers happy , chief executive Steve Ballmer told employees in a recent memo .
MSFT
The software giant will exit some non-core businesses and cut back on travel and entertainment expenses , while giving workers raises or bonuses to offset paper losses on once-vaunted stock options , Ballmer wrote last week .
Ballmer cited the problems facing many Microsoft partners and customers in the personal computer market , where a sales slump is expected to continue , in calling for significant spending cuts across the company .
- - -
Better than a pet rock : Japan 's Sony said it has received 40,000 orders for an updated version of its popular " Aibo " pet robot in less than four weeks after its launch on November 16 , marking a smooth start .
Orders for the second-generation Aibo , called the ERS-210 and capable of expressing anger or joy and otherwise engaging in " intimate interaction with people , " topped 40,000 by December 11 , a Sony spokeswoman said .
Sony has sold about 45,000 of its original Aibo robot dogs worldwide since their 1999 launch , including a limited edition of 3,000 that sold out just 20 minutes after going on sale over the Internet in Japan in June .
SNE
- - -
Berkshire grabs Manville : Building materials maker Johns Manville said it has entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Berkshire Hathaway , the investment holding company of magnate Warren Buffett , for $ 13 per share in cash , or about $ 1.92 billion .
The offer represents about a 17 percent premium on Johns Manville stock , based on Tuesday 's closing price of $ 10-3/4 .
JM
Johns Manville said it would start a tender offer for its outstanding shares no later than Jan. 3 to commence the deal .
- - -
WorldCom chair resigns from Telefonica : WorldCom Chairman Bert Roberts has resigned from the board of Spanish telecoms group Telefonica , severing another link in a fruitless strategic alliance with the Spanish multinational .
Both Roberts and Martin Velasco , another independent on Telefonica 's 20-member board , have stepped down and will be replaced by two Latin Americans .
The namings of Luiz Fernando Furlan , chairman of Brazilian food company Sadia , and Mario Vazquez , head of the U.S. consulting firm Arthur Andersen in Argentina , shift more of the board influence to Latin America , where Telefonica does about half its business .
Reuters contributed to this report .




EToys in Trouble

Online toy seller eToys on Monday saw its credit rating cut to " CCC-minus " and its debt ratings cut three notches to " C " by Standard & Poor 's .
The credit rating agency expressed " serious doubt " the company can continue to run its business .
The cuts came after Los Angeles-based eToys slashed its sales forecast for this quarter by as much as 50 percent , and said its quarterly operating loss as a percentage of revenue could more than double .
The company also said it may run out of cash by the end of March and according to The Wall Street Journal is exploring options including a possible sale or merger of the company .
Shares of eToys plunged 71 percent on a report that said holiday sales are far below expectations , calling into question the company 's ability to survive in its present form without new financing .
- - -
FTC OKs drug company merger : British drug giant Glaxo Wellcome said Monday that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission had cleared its merger with Smithkline Beecham to create GlaxoSmithKline .
It said that with the U.S. consent , which carried with it no further material divestitures , the companies had obtained all regulatory clearance to complete the long-delayed merger on Dec. 27 .
The two companies announced plans to link up back in January and originally planned to complete the merger in August , but it was twice delayed by intensive probes by the FTC , which worried about the new company 's clout in a consolidating industry .
Glaxo said the consent decree contained no provisions regarding products for helping people stop smoking -- the FTC has expressed concerns about the new company 's dominance in the area -- but it had indicated it would continue its review after the merger was completed .
- - -
Time Warner to restructure Road Runner : Time Warner said it would restructure its cable division 's stake in the Road Runner Internet service , which allows the company to meet federal regulatory requirements for its $ 104 billion merger with America Online .
TWX
AOL
Time Warner plans to take a one-time fourth-quarter charge of $ 20 million to $ 40 million related to the Road Runner restructuring .
Under a Road Runner joint venture agreement , in which AT&T (T) , Microsoft and Compaq Computer held stakes , Road Runner had exclusive rights to provide high-speed Internet access over Time Warner 's cable lines .
MSFT
CPQ
Under the restructuring , however , Time Warner ended the exclusivity agreement .
Separately , the world 's largest media company , whose properties include CNN , HBO , Time magazine and Bugs Bunny , also warned that earnings growth for full-year 2000 would fall short of its expectations .
The restructuring is expected to be completed by next April .
- - -
Aetna slashing 5,000 jobs : Aetna said it plans to cut 5,000 jobs , or 13 percent of its work force , and take about $ 565 million in charges in the fourth quarter , as the No. 1 U.S. health insurer looks to cut costs and boost profits .
The move is the first step by " new Aetna , " as its executives call it , to tackle problems in its health insurance business since it completed the sale of its international and financial services businesses to Dutch insurer ING Groep NV last week .
Aetna will increase prices significantly , exit unprofitable markets and products , and cut expenses beyond those resulting from market exits and lower membership , John Rowe , the CEO of Aetna 's health care business , said in a conference call with analysts .
- - -
Short of breath : Breathe.com joined Lineone and Freeserve in an early end-of-season sale of Britain 's Internet access companies .
Unlisted Breathe , Britain 's fifth largest ISP , opened its doors to PricewaterhouseCoopers administrators after it became the latest dot-com to run into financial distress .
Pricewaterhouse said it would try to sell the company as a going concern to avoid liquidation , and that it did not anticipate having to ax any of the company 's 140 jobs for now .
Analysts said that for any potential buyer wanting to inherit Breathe 's users , the price would have to be lower than the cost of trying to win the users itself from scratch .
- - -
Sohu.com cuts staff : Chinese Web portal Sohu.com announced it would slash 126 jobs , or 20 percent of its work force , and that its chief operating officer would leave the company .
SOHU
The cuts would be mainly in content production and administrative positions made redundant when Sohu completed its acquisition of ChinaRen.com in October , the company said .
- - -
Partnership nixed : Online office-supplies group Officenet of Argentina has dissolved a partnership with leading Latin American e-tailer Submarino.com that may have led to a joint public offering , the companies said .
Termination of their equity tie-up has yielded Officenet $ 34 million in fresh equity capital .
" When we realized the odds of going public were very low .
...
We went back to the market with the two companies to raise money for growth . "
private
- - -
Joint storage : Internet investor and operator CMGI and top data-storage company EMC plan to combine their respective search software and storage technologies .
CMGI
EMC
Under the terms of the deal , CMGI 's search engine AltaVista will combine its patented software with EMC 's higher-end Symmetrix Enterprise Storage systems and software .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Attention , Kids : Play This Game

Critics of video games have claimed that such toys have contributed to short attention spans and lack of focus in children .
But what about video games that can teach kids how to concentrate ?
That 's the claim of a new product called the Attention Trainer from East3 of Richmond , Virginia .
The device teaches kids how to exert control over what they are watching , thereby improving their focus and concentration .
The better their concentration , the better they fare in the particular game .
Here 's how it works : Kids don the yellow plastic helmet -- called the Thoughtcaster -- which is outfitted with tiny sensors inside the helmet that measure the child 's brainwaves .
The sensors read and transmit the brain signals to the receiver , which is plugged into a PC .
wirelessly
The software then analyzes the signals -- which control focus , relaxation , restlessness and drowsiness -- and the game responds according to how well the child is concentrating .
" The game acts as a mirror to your mind and body , " said Jeff Segal , chief technology officer for East3 , who demonstrated the technology using a bicycle-race game .
When Segal focused his attention on-screen , the digital cyclist pedaled harder , and the crowd cheered .
" It 's based on very solid science and very solid principles , " said Joel Lubar , a neurofeedback clinician and professor at the University of Tennessee , who has served as a consultant to the company . "
The main difference is that it is portable and it allows more freedom of movement . "
That 's much different than the earlier forms of the technology , which included wires , goopy sensors that attached to a child 's scalp , and multiple trips to the doctor 's office for training sessions .
NASA has also used advanced feedback technology to monitor attention levels of pilots in flight simulators .
The product is not specifically designed for children with Attention Deficient Disorder .
Before the company can advertise that it benefits kids with ADD , " it would have to be validated by the Food and Drug Administration .
We would have to carry out some good solid studies , " Lubar explained .
Instead , the target audience is kids who have trouble concentrating or sitting still to do their homework , have little motivation or are hyperactive .
After 30 or so 20-minute sessions , kids will have learned how to improve their concentration , said Tom Blue , co-founder of the company .
" It turns attention into a skill rather than a problem , " Blue said .
But the device did not impress one cognitive science expert who dubbed the product " kind of silly . "
" I really believe that this issue is not the stick that says , ' Hey !
Pay attention , kid !
' It 's the carrot that attracts and sustains their interest , " said Donald Norman , the founder of the department of cognitive science at the University of California , San Diego . "
The thing that really keeps you attentive is when you are doing something engaging . "
" They are treating the symptom , not the cause , " Norman said .
East3 plans to work with gaming companies to develop more games that are compatible with the Thoughtcaster .
The device has other potential uses , such as helping to train more efficient workers and better athletes .
The Attention Trainer system includes three games and a docking station for the helmet .
It 's expected to be available to the public in February 2001 and sells for $ 899 .




E-Learning Is Good ; Now What ?

As proponents of education and technology cheered a report on the importance of the Internet in education , others criticized the Web-based Education Commission for ignoring a crucial consideration : whether or not technology really helps kids learn .
The bipartisan commission , chaired by Sen. Bob Kerrey , released a report Tuesday that championed the use of the Internet in education , and outlined a national agenda to promote e-learning .
D-Nebraska
" sure looks like it was written by a commission that was viewing the World Wide Web through rose-colored glasses , " said Learning in the Real World coordinator William Rukeyser , who testified before the commission at last summer 's National Educational Computing Conference in Atlanta .
The report
Rukeyser said that there were " no surprises " in the report , meaning " what they have been doing is finding witnesses who would support the predetermined conclusions of the commission . "
The commission included a variety of businesspeople , lawmakers and educators , including John Gage , director of science for Sun Microsystems , Rep. Johnny Isakson , and Florence McGinn , a teacher and founder of an online literary magazine .
R-Georgia
After listening to the testimony of hundreds of educators , students and industry leaders , the commission outlined a number of areas that should be considered when moving forward with an e-learning agenda , including equal and widespread access to broadband , teacher training and support , privacy , more research and development and quality online educational content .
The report also recommended revisions of regulations that inhibit Web-based learning , like the COPA report .
Rukeyser said that the commission should focus more on research and development before issuing the call to action .
Content should be given more attention as well .
" Until the national discussion begins to focus on content as being just as important as the technology , our national education system is essentially going to be out to lunch , " Rukeyser said .
Evaluating the grade levels and subjects where technology is most effective are also important considerations , he said .
A member of the Alliance for Childhood , a group that recently issued a report calling for a moratorium on placing more computers in schools , questioned Kerrey on whether the commission had seriously considered the developmental effects of the machines on young children .
Rukeyser also pointed out that the commission 's research seemed to focus on the use of the Internet in high school and postsecondary education , yet the group made blanket recommendations for technology that targets kindergarten and even younger ages .
" Three-year-olds do n't learn in the same way that 33-year-olds do , " he said .
Nevertheless , technology proponents praised the commission for their work .
" You 've given us a valuable framework for moving forward , " said Linda Roberts , director of the office of educational technology at the department of education , commending the commission for their work .
" I think it 's a really good analysis of the current situation and areas where we need to go next , " agreed Sue Collins , general manager of bigchalk.com , who served on the commission .
" I 'm hopeful that the new administration will see this as a bipartisan effort that they can get behind , " she said . "
You can not prepare a child to live his or her life in this world without technology . "




Look , Up in the Sky : Robofly

In the future , some of those flies that splatter on your windshield as you speed down the freeway may be of the mechanical variety .
Researchers at the University of California , Berkeley , are aiming to create biologically inspired " roboflies " -- tiny , inexpensive , quick-moving robots they can send into space for planetary exploration .
" The idea here is , rather than build one super-fancy ' Rover ' that may fall under a rock and destroy the whole mission , you could release thousands of these things and if some of them were lost or destroyed it really would n't make a difference , " said Michael Dickinson , assistant professor at the Department of Integrative Biology at Cal .
Dickinson and his colleagues believe robots that can mimic insects will have a much greater ability to cover difficult terrain at high speeds than larger robots .
They believe this new class of " bot " will be substantially more compliant and stable than current models .
At a projected $ 10 a pop , losing a robofly or two is not going to put much of a dent in Uncle Sam 's pocket .
Space exploration is n't the only application the roboflies are slated to perform .
They 're also expected to be deployed on search-and-rescue missions .
" Flies are really good at finding large , warm , smelly , carbon-dioxide-emitting things .
It 's how mosquitoes and black flies make a living , " Dickinson said .
For example , roboflies could be used to search for survivors in earthquake-damaged buildings .
" This would require something agile and small enough to move around and within very confined spaces , " said Theresa McMullen , program officer at the Office of Naval Research , in an e-mail interview .
McMullen , who describes the robofly as a " stealth flyer , " also has some military uses planned .
Agent fly may well be ordered out on reconnaissance missions .
Squads of roboflies could be sent to search out targets , collect and provide information on damage assessment , search for chemical and biological warfare agents , or track the source of chemical plumes .
A superfly indeed .
The only question that remains is : Can it actually be built ?
" I do n't know if this design will work , " said Thomas Consi , senior lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Department of Ocean Engineering . "
The general approach , to build a complete system like this , is a good idea .
It 's looking at robotics through less of a tunnel vision of programming and algorithms only .
Whether the project fails or succeeds , we 'll learn a lot from it . "
What 's clear is that making small robots is a big endeavor .
" It 's entirely possible they will be successful .
Their limitation is in the power source , " said Stanford University engineering researcher Beth Pruitt . "
At the moment they do n't have a lightweight power source needed for sustainable flight . "
The Berkeley team is confident without being Pollyanna-ish .
" It 's been a tremendous challenge all along .
It 's very complicated and intricate , " said Ron Fearing , head of the research team and vice chairman for undergraduate matters at Berkeley .
Dickinson , who describes himself as " the biological inspiration " of the project , studies real flies and works out what fly traits can be mechanically copied .
From this research , a replica is constructed .
" One of the problems of building something as small as a fly is that you can n't use conventional things like pulleys and gears and pistons , " Dickinson said .
The fly will weigh 100 milligrams and have a wingspan of 2 centimeters .
" Making it is sort of like elaborate origami .
We actually cut out , with a laser , patterns in stainless steel and then we fold them into complicated shapes , " Dickinson added .




Web Ads Should Be Seen and Heard

To get attention on the Web , advertisers increasingly need to be heard as well as seen .
Webcasters , who have seen banner ads decline in price , are moving to new ad-insertion technologies to bolster declining revenues .
Dynamic banner ads that are reinforced by audio spots can provide Internet broadcasters a better click-through rate and much-needed supplemental stream of income .
" Better targeted ads increase revenues because people are more likely to react to them , " said IDC analyst Malcolm Maclachlan . "
That is something which can be directly measured on the Web . "
Advertising technology company Hiwire has created its own ad insertion system , which is able to serve one billion ads per month embedded within live streams .
" We work in a live radio stream , " said Hiwire president Jim Pavilack . "
That means every time there is a commercial break , there will be an ad targeted toward your demographic that delivers on the promise that we can make this work .
A lot of the very smart people that have been experienced in the business , like KPIG and Premiere Radio Networks , have joined our affiliate program . "
The Premiere Radio Networks , which produces nationally syndicated talk shows such as Dr. Laura and Rush Limbaugh , is using the Hiwire system to enable local advertisers to insert ads targeted to individual listeners .
Webcasters are seeing their revenue source dry up as the price of ad banners has steadily declined .
Audio ads , which are embedded in music streams and synched with flash-animation banners , can be sold at premiums to help the bottom line .
" We did a test with Honda through diskjockey.com and delivered 250,000 audio impressions with 60-second audio ads , accompanied by a synch ad , " Pavilack said . "
We also did 250,000 page views with the identical creative design .
The banner only got 1,798 clicks , and for the audio advertising we got 9,869 clicks . "
RealNetworks ran a similar test and the audio ads received a 5.5 percent click-through rate , nearly 13 times the average banner ad 's click-through rate .
Those results allow Hiwire to charge a minimum of $ 35 per thousand impressions , with rates going up depending on how targeted an advertiser wants the ad to be .
The increased revenue could eventually help webcasters offset the costly expense of creating programming .
Not everyone has given up on the banner ad , however , albeit with a twist .
Ad company DoubleClick recently announced that they would offer a new service from telephony vendor ITXC called " Push to Talk " that allows advertisers to voice-enable banner ads .
DCLK
Consumers are offered the opportunity to click on a " voice " icon on the ads , which creates a PC-to-voice conversation with a customer service representative from that company .
" Launching a phone call directly from a banner ad to a reservation desk ... provides a much greater experience for an end user than going to a splash page or a website , " Sean Black , vice president of interactive media at Grey E. Media , said in a statement .




A Pretty Face Is Not Enough

When the creators of Pac Man wanted to reach out to girl gamers , they added a bow and created Ms. Pac Man .
Nearly two decades later , Nintendo made its popular Game Boy available in pink and berry colors in an effort to make the console appear girl-friendly .
But is a pink box enough to attract girls to computer games ?
Not according to experts , who say that girls want interactive , collaborative content instead of the violent video games that dominate the market .
" Girls want games that engage and challenge them , not ' girlie ' versions of games originally designed for boys , " said Patti Miller , director of Children Now 's Children & the Media program . "
Game producers need to stop thinking pink . "
In a market long dominated by video games targeted at boys , titles that appeal to girls can be hard to find .
And critics say that most of the top-selling video games feature violent , stereotypical or unrealistic characters , which send the wrong messages to girl gamers .
A study released Wednesday by children 's advocacy group Children Now suggests that almost half of the top-selling console video games contain negative messages about girls .
The month-long study examined the top-selling video games for the Sega Dreamcast , Sony PlayStation and Nintendo 64 console systems as ranked in October 2000 by PC Data .
Overall , 27 games were studied , some of which were available on more than one system .
Researchers found that only 54 percent of the games surveyed had female characters , compared to 92 percent of games that contained male characters .
Over half of the games with female characters portrayed them as violent , while more than a third displayed unrealistic body images .
Many of these characters also displayed stereotypical female characteristics , such as fainting and talking in high-pitched voices .
" These are not the kinds of images that girls want to see , nor are they the types of games they want to play , " Miller said .
" Both boys and girls receive unhealthy messages that impact the way they think they should look and act .
These kinds of portrayals send very strong messages about what it means to be female . "
Sega , Sony and Nintendo were unavailable to comment .
A report released earlier this year by the American Association of University Women Educational Foundation found that many girls are turned off to technology at an early age by violent computer games that are geared toward boys .
AAUW
The report found that girls often dislike violent video games and prefer personalized , interactive , role-playing games .
But games that engage girls in problem solving and cooperative-play are few and far between .
Games that are targeted at girls often focus on ' girl specific ' interests , such as makeup and fashion .
" Barbie very much reigns supreme in video games for girls , " Miller said . "
But girls need more options .
...
need to focus on different kinds of things other than fashion and appearance . "
Game developers
" We believe that girls should have as many types of games as there are types of girls , " said Megan Gaiser , president of Her Interactive , developer of the popular Nancy Drew CD-ROM series .




Vodafone Crosses Irish Sea

Britain 's Vodafone clinched a 4.5 billion euro deal on Thursday to buy Irish mobile phone leader Eircell from former Irish telecoms monopoly Eircom just a day after sealing a major investment in Japan .
$ 4.12 billion
The takeover makes Vodafone the largest player in Ireland 's fast-growing mobile market , and is a neat fit with its operations in Northern Ireland .
VOD
" Vodafone is ... adding more than 1.2 million customers to its base , in an attractive mobile market with a high proportion of young people and a fast growing population , " said Julian Horn-Smith Vodafone Europe 's chief executive .
Eircom shares , which have fallen steadily since floating at 3.90 euros last year , dropped 3.5 percent to 2.75 euros .
EIR
Vodafone was down 3 percent at 237-3/4 pence .
" It 's completely consistent with Vodafone 's strategy to cement its portfolio globally , " said Karen Robertson , investment director at Standard Life Investments , which has 1.4 percent of Vodafone shares in its 80 billion pound portfolio .
Eircell has about 60 percent of the Irish market , and is considered the jewel in Eircom 's crown .
Its only competitor is Esat Digifone , although U.S.-Irish consortium Meteor has been awarded a third license and is expected to start services shortly .
- - -
Taiwan 's China gambit : Shougang Group , the Chinese steel giant , broke ground this week on a $ 1.3 billion semiconductor plant backed by Taiwan investors , a company official said .
Total investment in the Beijing-based venture , called Huaxia Semiconductor Manufacturing Company , will eventually reach $ 10 billion and comprise five or six plants .
The project is the latest in a string of major foreign investments in the country 's semiconductor manufacturing sector and aims to meet exploding demand for silicon chips used in everything from Chinese-made mobile handsets to camcorders and laptops .
The plant is expected to begin producing eight-inch wafers using 0.25 micron technology in 2003 .
The chips will go into power windows in cars and countless electronics and consumer goods , according to an investor in the group .
Shougang will invest $ 120 million in the plant and the Beijing municipal government will inject $ 80 million , the official said .
- - -
Losses at Lucent : Lucent Technologies said weak industry conditions would cause its first-quarter loss to be much wider than expected , and added that it would slash $ 1 billion in costs in an expected overhaul of its business .
LU
The earnings warning comes amid a slump in the telecommunications sector that is affecting everyone from long-distance companies to wireless carriers , and companies like Lucent whose products make up the backbone of modern communications .
The company said it now expects a loss of 25 cents to 30 cents per share on continuing operations in the fiscal first quarter , ending Dec. 31 , well off consensus analyst estimates of a loss of one cent , according to market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial .
- - -
Smart move : TheStreet.com said that it acquired SmartPortfolio.com Inc. , an electronic-mail financial newsletter publisher , in a move to strengthen its position in the online financial news and information sector .
TSCM
The acquisition comes during challenging times for TheStreet.com .
The company announced in mid-November that it was cutting 20 percent of its U.S. staff , shutting down its British operations , which were less than a year old , and closing its joint newsroom venture with The New York Times .
TheStreet.com also announced plans to buy back up to $ 10 million of its shares on the open market .
After the two announcements , the stock rose 7/8 , or almost 26 percent , to $ 2-1/8 in early Nasdaq trading .
TheStreet.com 's shares have floundered as investors have become increasingly disillusioned .
The stock , which shot up to $ 60 on its first day of trading in May 1999 , closed at $ 1-11/16 on the Nasdaq on Wednesday .
SmartPortfolio.com produces a range of financial newsletters , including Smart !
Internet Report , Smart!IPO Report , and Smart !
Market Report , and has about 10,000 paid subscriptions and more than 250,000 subscribers to its free products , TheStreet.com said .
- - -
Microsoft grows a little more : Microsoft said it would acquire Great Plains Software , a maker of business management software for small and medium companies , in a stock deal valued at $ 1.1 billion .
MSFT
Microsoft said the acquisition will eventually provide new capabilities to complement Microsoft 's online service for small companies , bCentral .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Tech Investors Feel the Pain

Pessimism reigned supreme on Wall Street Wednesday , as investment analysts lowered their ratings on scores of big-name tech stocks and the Nasdaq index slid to a year-long low .
In one of the busiest days of the year for technology stock downgrades , investment banks lowered recommendations on several of the top performing stocks of last year and early this year , including Cisco Systems , Yahoo and Nortel Networks .
CSCO
YHOO
NT
The rash of downgrades extended to technology blue chips IBM and Hewlett Packard , both downgraded by Merrill Lynch from " near term accumulate " to " near term neutral " .
IBM
HP
a lukewarm rating
a slightly chillier rating
The moves did n't come as a surprise to many market watchers .
" It 's just the analysts locking the barn door after the horse is out , " said Chuck Hill , director of research at First Call .
Hill noted that most of the stocks that were downgraded were already doing badly due to expectations that a slowing economy will put a damper on quarterly earnings .
Nonetheless , negative comments from analysts contributed to pushing down the technology-laden Nasdaq Composite Index 179 points , or 7.1 percent , to close at 2,372 , the lowest point for the year .
Big losers of the day included Cisco , down 13 percent , Amazon.com , down 9 percent to a year-long low , and networking gear maker Foundry Networks , which shed a whopping 58 percent following downgrades Wednesday from six investment banks .
AMZN
FDRY
Foundry had warned that fourth-quarter earnings would come in lower than expected , as Internet service provider customers reign in spending .
Hill said a dramatic turnaround for beaten-down tech stocks is unlikely before mid-January at the earliest , when companies start reporting results for the fourth quarter .
He saw the latest round of downgrades , however , as a sign that the plunge in tech stocks may be nearing a bottom .




Prism Brightens Handheld Market

How often have you lusted after an expensive new gadget , bought it secretly without telling your spouse and then relegated it to a desk drawer when the initial ardor faded ?
For me , this familiar pattern was broken by the Prism , the new color handheld from Handspring .
Thanks to its beautiful bright and shiny screen , the Prism has been a constant companion , even if I 'm too embarrassed to take it out in public .
It 's just too ostentatious to be fished out on the bus .
It 's a shame , because the Prism is great for reading .
It 's incandescent screen -- which is so bright I 've used it as a flashlight -- makes text sharp and clear .
In many ways , reading on the Prism is easier on your eyes and RSI-prone wrists than reading on a computer monitor .
I download a number of newspapers to it daily via AvantGo , but I do n't like the constant attention it attracts .
Apart from PocketPCs , which are based on Microsoft 's Windows CE operating system , the Prism 's only competition comes from the Palm IIIc , a lower-priced color handheld from Palm .
The Prism is a little heftier than the IIIc , and at $ 449 it is more expensive than the $ 329 Palm device .
But for the extra $ 120 , the Prism has a faster processor , a Springboard expansion slot and a much better screen .
Together , these make the Prism more like a mini handheld computer than a humble organizer with a nice display .
If you can afford it , the Prism is without question the Cadillac of Palm-OS handhelds .
It has a very attractive , cobalt blue case and a 16-bit screen .
The screen can display 65,000 colors , compared to the IIIc 's 8-bit screen , which displays 256 colors .
The difference is n't apparent much of the time , but it becomes clear when displaying photographs , which look life-like on the Prism but appear heavily compressed on the IIIc .
Handspring offers a list of some of the color software available for the Prism .
The Prism 's 33-MHz processor , which is twice as fast as most Palm-OS devices , makes switching between applications quick and painless .
And screen redraws are snappy .
The unit has a little trouble playing video , but the selection available on sites such as AtomFilms pales in comparison to those available for PocketPCs .
But who wants to watch video on their handheld anyway ?
To see what I mean , check out The Aggressively Boring Film Festival .




Striking Reporters ' Site Grows

SEATTLE -- Even though the city 's two main daily newspapers have been on strike for almost a month , Seattlites are not having to make do without the news .
In fact , there is even more news available than there used to be , thanks to the competing newspaper websites .
Talks between the two sides have reportedly made little progress since the walk out began .
If nothing else , that 's given the online strike paper -- called the Union Record -- a chance to find itself .
Within a day of voting to walk out , members of the striking Northwest Newspaper Guild -- which represents the Seattle Times and Seattle Post-Intelligencer -- had posted the first edition of the Seattle Union Record online .
The first edition of the online strike paper had a few local news stories and a smattering of popular columnists from the two dailies .
Since then , the Union Record has expanded its operation , adding sections and features , as well as a three-day-a-week hard-copy edition containing highlights of the Web-based publication .
The Union Record now has complete sports , lifestyle and entertainment sections as well as coverage of local and world news , and the full roster of striking Guild columnists .
Hits at the Union Record grew from slightly under 100,000 on the first day to more than 171,000 on Dec. 8 .
A spokesman for the Times Co. said the newspaper 's site continued to get more than 10 million hits a month , the same as before the walk out began .
Figures provided by the Times New Media division for October and November showed a decline of approximately 320,000 , but they said that was explained by the Thanksgiving holiday , since they believe most readers visit the site from work .
From the beginning , the strike paper has been able to scoop the dailies on local and regional news stories .
The first came when striking investigative reporters filed a story they had been working on before the strike was called -- a story about Guatemalan orphans claiming that victims of a plane crash were actually their fathers .
The crash victims were all men who had traveled to Guatemala during the previous years , and who had no surviving spouses or children .
When the Seattle Mariners ' star shortstop Alex Rodriguez signed a $ 252 million , 10-year contract with the Texas Rangers , the Union Record immediately posted a wire service story and dispatched sports reporters to do local follow-up stories to add to its coverage , according to John Ryan , a striking editor working on the copy desk at the Union Record .
Ryan said that strikers are receiving $ 200 a week in strike benefits from the union , a fraction of their normal wages , but they are working on the strike newspaper out of love for the job .
" For most of the people who are in here who are part of the Guild , meaning people who are part of the Times and the P-I , it 's pretty much a volunteer effort , " Ryan said . "
They love putting out a newspaper .
It 's a blast to be doing this .
It 's absolute chaos -- it 's fun and pressure and running around .
" The interesting thing about the Union Record is that it 's all kind of in a flow , " Ryan said . "
The wonderful thing about this is I do n't know what I 'm going to be working on from hour to hour . "
Both the Times and the P-I have maintained an Internet presence for some years .




Beware the Computer Zombies

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Tens of thousands of computer systems may have been secretly invaded by " zombies " that could suddenly spring to life over the upcoming holiday weekend , the National Infrastructure Protection Center says .
The zombie computers , controlled remotely by crackers , will then eat the brains of the Internet .
Based on " FBI investigations and other information , " the National Infrastructure Protection Center has issued a special night of the living dead warning for the holiday weekend .
NIPC
The agency says that there is a high potential over the next few days for distributed denial-of-service attacks , the same cyber attacks that crippled the Internet in February 2000 , and is advising IT personnel to take some extra precautions before they head out of the office on Friday .
DOS
The NIPC advises network supervisors to run the NIPC 's free " Find DDOS " utility to determine if a network harbors any of those nasty DOS Trojans such as Trin00 , Tribal Flood Net , TFN2K , MStream , Stacheldraht and Trinity v3 , that can turn a mild-mannered system into a crazed zombie computer .
Windows NT administrators should particularly check for the presence of the SubSeven Trojan , which would indicate that a system harbors a zombie .
The NIPC also suggests making sure that virus screening programs are up to date and ready to handle the anticipated glut of e-mail on Tuesday .
And , in case the worst does happen and users are confronted with a crowd of computer cadavers , the NIPC suggests that companies should also consider having a contingency plan , including a way to contact their Internet service provider and a security response team in case of attack .
Andrew Antipass , a Manhattan-based corporate security consultant , says he thinks the Internet will see some " sensational " DOS attacks in 2001 .
" Could it happen over the holiday weekend ? "
Antipass said . "
Sure , because when so many business and university machines are left unattended for a few days , you always have to consider that someone will realize it 's an optimum time to muck about in systems . "
The NIPC and other security experts also suggest a " lights out " check to ensure that all users have logged out of the system before they leave the office .
People tend to want to escape fast over the holidays , and they may leave without closing down their connections .
That leaves the network open to anyone who happens to be in the vicinity , either virtually , or -- more likely &ndash; - people who are physically in your office .
" That 's not to say office cleaning crews are actually frustrated crackers , but in some circles corporate espionage is n't unheard of , " Antipass added .
The NIPC also advises running a full data and system backup before stopping work for the holiday weekend .
And if systems will be left running unattended , they also suggest applying all current security patches as well .
Antipass suggests that security supervisors should plan to start off the new millennium right by reminding users " once again " that they should " never " open any e-mailed attachments , such as documents , screen savers or pictures that have been sent to them .
" I 'm stressing to people that they should n't open anything from anyone unless they are specifically expecting to get a document via e-mail .
It 's important to tell people , and then tell them again , that nasty viruses and worms can be sent from someone you know .
" It does n't mean they are out to get you , just means you have some lame friends or co-workers who clicked on something they should n't have . "
it
MonKeeBiz , a self-described " freelance systems and security investigator " , said that the NIPC warning is " somewhat justified " in its warnings and fears .
But he added that the " real story " behind the furor over DoS attacks is that there is a patch readily available for the hole that is being exploited .
" If the zombies are gathering on the front lines , then why are so many people aiding and abetting them by not applying security patches ? "
MonKeeBiz said .
" Did n't you folks see the Night of the Living Dead ?
When the zombies started lurching around and lunching on people , the first thing those people did was board up the windows and the doors .
Same thing here - &ndash; apply the patches and then go out and party . "




Energy : A Net Plus or Minus ?

The U.S. economy has grown at breakneck speed over the last eight years .
Traditionally , economic growth of this kind has been accompanied by a large increase in energy demand .
Yet while energy demand has indeed risen , it has done so at a slower rate than expected .
What gives ?
Experts agree that the Internet is playing a role , but what role is the subject of debate .
Some say the Internet is causing a reduction in energy use , while others argue the Internet is actually sucking up more juice .
The Energy Information Administration 's Annual Energy Outlook , which was released on Friday , projects that over the next 20 years , energy intensity will drop almost 30 percent faster than it has for the last 50 years .
Energy intensity , which measures energy use per $ 1 million of gross domestic product , is viewed by experts as an indicator of the health of the energy sector .
" Over the last four years , energy per gdp has dropped at a precipitous rate , " said Joseph Romm of the Center for Energy and Climate Solutions .
Romm and others believe that the shift in energy intensity is a result of the Internet 's influence on the economy .
He says that telecommuting , access to readily available information and even online auctions are leading to significant energy savings .
Romm 's view is n't necessarily gospel .
Others -- including Mark Mills , a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute , and Peter Huber , a senior fellow at The Manhattan Institute for Policy Research -- argue that the Internet is , in fact , the electricity hog of the new economy .
Some experts , meanwhile , think that formulating concrete predictions about how the Internet will affect future energy use is as futile as network attempts to predict Florida 's election results from early exit polling .
" I 'm not sure anyone is accepting anything yet , " said Paul Hesse of the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Clearinghouse .
Because the Internet is such a recent phenomenon and the statistics could be skewed , those staying out of the debate think others should wait before making substantive claims either way .
The issue of whether the Internet is saving energy is certainly debatable .
One could look at the last 10 years and note an increase in gdp and a decrease in energy consumption after 1996 .
This seems to bolster Romm 's argument .
However , one could easily counter that these early returns may turn out to be no more than aberrations or short-term trends .
In Romm 's December 1999 report , " The Internet Economy and Global Warming , " he says that the Internet 's capacity to disseminate real-time information and cut waste has resulted in energy savings .
This year 's Annual Energy Outlook suggests that Romm 's argument is gaining approval .
Considering that energy intensity has decreased at an average rate of 1.25 percent annually since 1949 , the EIA 's projection of an annual 1.6 percent decrease through 2020 indicates quite a change .
According to EIA representative Mary Hutzler , the revised numbers are partly due to rapid growth projections in the computer and semiconductor components of the industrial sector .
Romm says growth in the computer industry and Internet will lead to less waste in the economy , yielding energy savings .
Online auction sites , he says , exemplify this increasing efficiency .
The goods available on online auction sites such as eBay are essentially inefficiencies in the economy if they are not sold .
" If the product is not sold , the whole process of manufacturing , shipping and storing that product adds to our energy consumption , but not to our gdp , " says Romm .
He sees these potential energy savings throughout the economy .




ISPs Face Down DMCA

File-trading is all about anonymity .
Rather , it was .
Thanks to new software applications hitting the market , content providers are now able to track users that share music , movie and other media files across file-trading networks like Napster .
Even Freenet -- the fiercely protective network -- appears to be vulnerable to the new programs .
One service , Copyright Agent , allows content owners to provide ISPs with lists of files to remove and , in many cases , to have Internet access to certain users cut off completely .
The systems work by automating the take down and removal policies in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 , many of which have been too unwieldy for service providers to monitor .
" Unlike encryption and digital rights management solutions , you need something to go out and make sure that any leaks out there are stopped because those leaks mean you are losing revenue , " said Tim Smith , president of Copyright.net , the maker of Copyright Agent . "
Our software all developed around the DMCA .
We 've Web-enabled the DMCA . "
" We developed software that automates the processes laid out under the DMCA for copyright owners to protect their work and to the ISPs to protect their interests . "
According to the DMCA , Smith said ISPs are required to remove materials from their system once copyright owners have identified the infringing content .
Content owners simply provide a list of materials that the Copyright Agent application will search .
The system then compiles a list of Internet protocol addresses , identifies the ISP that the content is running through , and prepares a batch list for each different ISP .
IP
This gives the ISPs a manageable list of materials to remove from its system .
Emusic recently unveiled a similar system , which it developed to track users trading the company 's content over the Napster network .
Its application tracks the MD5 checksum , which uniquely identifies the original source of a song , allowing Emusic to track files that were being made available .
Once infringing users are identified , they would then receive an instant message warning them to remove the materials from the network within 24 hours or be faced with having their account blocked by Napster .
The system would also track the IP addresses of the infringing users , which would enable Emusic to send a take-down notice directly to the user 's ISP if necessary .
But these new systems might be overstepping the bounds of the law .
While helping ISPs track users who are committing copyright infringement , attorney Fred von Lohmann said the new automated systems might actually be putting ISPs at the mercy of content owners .
" If you are the ISP , what can you do at this point ? " said von Lohmann , an associate with San Francisco 's Morrison & Foerster . "
Once the first note is sent to the users , ISPs are stuck .
They do n't have the right to burrow into the users ' hard drives to verify the material is infringing .
That does n't seem like the right answer here .
Similarly , I do n't want the ISPs rolling over on the end user , giving away all of their information to third parties . "
The new systems create a world where the mere accusation of wrong-doing could cause users to begin losing their Internet access .
That would put content owners in a very powerful position on the Web .




Mucko : ' Thou Shalt Not Kill '

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
The postings reminding an Internet newsgroup populated by engineers and professional demolition experts of the sanctity of the Sixth Commandment -- " Thou shalt not kill " -- were thoughtful and educated .
That they were possibly written by the man accused of gunning down seven employees at a Massachusetts Internet consulting firm on Tuesday is downright chilling .
" It would seem that some ' Christians ' have forgotten the Sixth Commandment , " Michael McDermott wrote on Aug. 8 , in a thread started by another poster asking where to purchase land mines to defend Christians under attack in Indonesia .
" It is hard to imagine Jesus resorting to land mines , " McDermott wrote .
( The Sixth Commandment is the prohibition of murder , as enumerated in Jewish tradition , according to online encyclopedia Encarta .
But in other enumerations , the Sixth Commandment is the prohibition of adultery ) .
The entries , written to the alt.engr.explosives newsgroup beginning in 1999 and continuing through this year , were signed by Michael McDermott .
His e-mail address contained the word " mucko , " which is known to be the alleged killer 's nickname , and which also appears on his license plate .
It has not yet been confirmed that these postings were in fact written by McDermott .
A spokesman for Mediaone declined to comment on whether " Mucko " was the same Michael McDermott charged in the slayings , but did confirm that the service is available to subscribers in New England .
E-mails from Wired News to his Internet address have gone unanswered .
A stockpile of explosives was found at McDermott 's home in Haverhill , Mass. , including bomb-making chemicals and blasting caps .
Police also recovered a number of magazines on explosives .
McDermott , 42 , is being held in Middlesex County Jail in Cambridge , Mass.
He was being evaluated to determine if he should continue to receive medications his lawyer said he 's taking for an undisclosed psychiatric problem .
Prosecutors are investigating whether the rampage was prompted by a tax dispute .
McDermott 's employer had recently agreed to comply with an IRS order that it withhold a portion of his wages to pay back taxes .
Armed with a semiautomatic rifle , a shotgun and a pistol , McDermott allegedly stalked Edgewater Technology 's Wakefield offices Tuesday morning , picking out seven victims and emptying at least 37 rounds in no more than eight minutes , Assistant District Attorney Tom O'Reilly said .
McDermott was a " thoughtful and frequent , though not habitual " poster to the newsgroup , said one participant of the newsgroup , an engineer with the U.S. government who preferred to remain anonymous .
" I would say he displayed comprehensive knowledge of the theory and practice of explosives , " the engineer said .
In his postings , McDermott frequently replied to requests for help , and eagerly clarified scientific questions about explosive chemical compounds .
He often warned people not to play with explosives , lest they hurt themselves or others .
He also reminisced about the time he and some friends disposed of a sodium and potasium alloy they had made from a university supply .
" Slowly , the realization dawned upon us that we must dispose of the evidence , " McDermott wrote . "
So , we bottled it up , pulled it from the dry box , and , under cover of darkness , hiked it out to the local bridge .
Before consigning it to the briny deep , we popped it open so we could hear if it fizzles when it hits the water . "
Evidently , the alloy did indeed " fizzle . "
McDermott closed that post by noting that " surprised can be an alarmingly inadequate word " to describe the results of some experiments .
McDermott was evidently very familiar with the unpredictable nature of chemical compounds .
In another post , responding to a request for information on Lithium , he notes , " Oh , yeah .
Lithium will catch fire on a humid day . "
According to a search of archived news postings at deja.com , " Mucko " posted at least 23 messages since last year to the newsgroup .
Postings prior to May 15 , 1999 , are currently unavailable through deja.com 's search function .
McDermott also posted to alt.tasteless.jokes and alt.humor , contributing jokes on cancer and road kill .
In other news reports emanating since the Tuesday tragedy , McDermott 's high school classmates have been quoted as saying McDermott was the class clown .
A spokesman for the Massachusetts State Police said that local law enforcement and the district attorney 's office have been made aware of the McDermott messages , and will investigate , but since explosives were n't used in the murders the newsgroup posts are n't being considered a high priority at this time .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Apple Reaction : Bring Back Woz ?

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Break out the tarot cards , the crystal balls and the tea leaves .
Another MacWorld Expo is almost upon us , which means it 's time once again to try and predict what Apple CEO Steve Jobs will be chatting about in his keynote next week .
Most expect Jobs to announce new G4 PowerBooks , possibly with a faster CPU , probably in a thin and light form factor .
And almost certainly there will be an announcement of faster CPUs in Apple 's top-end desktop models , according to sources close to Apple , something that was also hinted at in Jobs ' October conference call with analysts .
But no matter what products are announced one thing is for sure , Steve Jobs will need to truly dazzle the increasingly disgruntled and worried crowd of Mac faithfuls , who once thought he could do no wrong .
" The big news will be a somewhat faster CPU , " said a source close to Apple who spoke on condition of anonymity .
The source refused to say whether the chip would be a Motorola make , as all current Apple machines are , or a CPU from another company like Transmeta or AMD .
" I 've said too much already , " the Apple source said .
Now more than ever , Jobs needs happy supporters .
After the debacles that Apple has suffered through over the last few months , some are speculating that perhaps the emperor has no clothes .
" He 's releasing style over substance - &ndash; ego machines that appeal to the eye , " said Nancy Jenkins , a freelance graphic design artist and a frequent volunteer at Apple 's Demo Days , where Mac products are shown off to non-Mac users .
" It 's time for Apple to return to its roots .
Enough with the pretty toys , where are the serious products for their core audience of graphics professionals ? "
Jenkins said .
There are even calls for the return of Steve Wozniak , Apple 's vice-president of research and development from 1976-1985 , a time when Apple held a strong position in the marketplace .
Other experts , such as Henry Norr , technology reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle , and Adam C. Engst , MacWorld contributing editor , are predicting that very troubled times lie ahead for Jobs .
Norr went as far as to say that Jobs will resign in 2001 .
Others said that Jobs does his best work under pressure .
Steven Kowaski , a contributor to the now defunct MacUser magazine , said , " The comeback CEO had the wind knocked out of him this summer .
Word is that he 's now listening to the guys in research and development a bit more closely .
Look for a refocusing on the core market , and a new lineup of products with ' less fluff , more stuff ' aimed squarely at power users .
" Most companies are happy to preview their new products to the media .
Apple , however , protects new product news as if a leak would threaten national security , resulting in a mad scramble to guess what the Wizard of Jobs will have hidden behind the curtains at his keynotes . "
One sign that the soothsayers watch for is announcements of price cuts , which are believed to indicate the imminent arrival of a new product line .
Apple slashed prices across much of its hardware line Tuesday .
Apple 's 500-megahertz G4 Server is now listed at $ 3,099 , down from $ 4,199 .
The 500 MHz PowerBook 's price dropped to $ 2,199 from $ 2,999 .
And the stylish 450 MHz Cube shed $ 300 for a new list price of $ 1,499 .
But many Mac users are less interested in scooping up those bargains than they are in divining what those cuts indicate for future Macintosh products .
Apple refused to comment on the price cuts .
Most believe that Apple 's price cuts on Tuesday were a rather obvious attempt to clear out the old products to make way for the new .
But some questioned why the company did n't slash prices before the holiday buying season .
" I can only assume they thought that Christmas shopping might be strong this year .
Where that particular assumption might have came from I do n't know , " said Jeff Ayers at Manhattan 's CompUSA store .
" Mac users typically are n't bargain hunters , " Ayers added .
" PC people will come in and look for a deal .
Mac people , apart from the iMac users , just want whatever is the latest and greatest from Apple . "
Mike Minton , at New York 's computer store J&#038;R , said that Mac sales were " pretty good " over the holiday season , but he thinks " the hardcore Mac head " is waiting until after the Expo to make purchases .
" The price cuts are just whetting their appetite for the new stuff .
Unless they need a computer for the kids , few people will buy now .
They 'll wait and see what Jobs announces in his keynote . "
Few expect a final version of the long awaited OS X to be released at the Expo , though a refreshed copy of the OS X Beta Release will probably be on hand .
The general consensus for OS X 1.0 's release is the end of February at the earliest , with some pointing to the WorldWide Developers Conference in May as a likely time .
Others skeptically say shrink-wrapped copies will n't hit the shelves until the next MacWorld , held in New York in July .
OS X is a UNIX-based system that some say can move Apple into the Internet server space , an area where the company 's offerings are not strong .
" Last year I thought that no OS X by January would doom Apple .
Now I 'm less than convinced that may be the case , " said Evan Whiting , an IT consultant for New York State .
" I think , looking at the price cuts , they may have a server announcement in store for us , and that would soften the blow for the business-focused resellers who are looking at OS X as their savior .
" On the lighter side , Jobs is also expected to announce iMusic as a complement to the company 's popular iMovie video editing application , and perhaps a new version of QuickTime . "




MS Faces Discrimination Suit

WASHINGTON -- Seven current and former Microsoft employees are planning to sue the computer software maker for discrimination , citing racial bias , the plaintiffs ' lawyers said .
The suit , to be filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on Wednesday , asks for $ 5 billion , the lawyers said in a statement .
This is the second bias suit against the Redmond , Wash.-based company in the past three months .
MSFT
The plaintiffs include four employees based in Washington D.C. and three more in Washington state .
The complaint alleges discrimination in evaluations , compensation and promotions , as well as wrongful termination and retaliation .
Microsoft 's last notable case in the Washington federal court was the antitrust lawsuit filed by the Justice Department and several states in which District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ordered the company split in two .
That case is under appeal .
Microsoft spokesman Dean Katz said Tuesday that he had not seen the lawsuit , but that his company was committed to diversity .
" Microsoft does not tolerate discrimination in any of its employment practices , and we are committed to treating all of our employees fairly , " Katz said . "
We take these kinds of issues very seriously . "
Katz said blacks make up 2.7 percent of Microsoft 's domestic work force , but all minorities comprise 22.7 percent of the company 's workers , he said .
" We 're pleased with the progress we 've made in increasing the number of minorities working at Microsoft .
That said , there are still a number of things we can do to stimulate interest among minorities in the technical fields , " he said , citing the nearly $ 100 million in grants Microsoft has given to organizations to stimulate interest in tech jobs among women and minorities .
The firm of Willie E. Gary , the Florida lawyer who brought the suit , did not return a call seeking details Tuesday .
In October , a lawyer representing a black female plaintiff filed a suit against Microsoft claiming racial and gender bias .
That suit , which also requested an injunction against further discrimination by Microsoft , is still pending and is seeking class-action status .




A Growing Epidemic of ' Waplash '

The hype over Wireless Application Protocol -- the so-called wireless Web -- has turned off consumers and created " Waplash , " industry experts say .
Unless WAP-backers change their marketing strategy or products , consumers will embrace WAP next year as enthusiastically as they do today .
Which , is to say , hardly at all .
" The last half of the year saw reports filtering through about the negative European experiences caused by slow download rates , tiny screens and lack of phones , " said Tim Richards , editor for an Australian WAP site . "
As a consequence , WAP has been labeled ' disappointing .
'
" While there has been a lot of teething troubles with the introduction of wireless Internet services this year , I think that over the next year , we will see WAP being accepted as people and companies find their own use for the technology and providers become more adventurous in their offerings . "
That will take a lot of work .
Despite all the media hoopla that the wireless Web is the future , wireless advertising is only expected to garner $ 890 million in 2005 , according to Forrester Research .
WAP supporters will also have to stave off competition by Japanese carrier NTT DoCoMo , which has a competing proprietary service called i-mode .
I-mode already touts over 15 million subscribers in Japan .
The Japanese telecom giant has also been buying stakes in foreign companies to offer i-mode-like services .
It owns a stake in Dutch KPN Mobile , Cingular Wireless and quite possibly AT&T Wireless .
Europeans and Americans may ditch their WAP phones for i-mode devices , unless WAP backers get their acts together .
It 's The Spectrum , Stupid : Even though the company made a $ 150 million down payment , Nextel Communications dropped out of the U.S. wireless spectrum auction claiming it had " four times " the spectrum it needed .
NXTL
Lucent Technologies and Qualcomm just completed the first test run of next generation CDMA equipment in the U.S.
LU
QCOM
The companies performed the tests over a link in the 1.9 GHz spectrum over Lucent 's network that enabled Web browsing , streaming video and e-mail to run at data transmission speeds of up to 2.4 megabits per second ?Ethat's 165 times faster than speeds for similar applications today .
Lucent Technologies also teamed up with Sprint PCS to offer Michigan customers voice and wireless Web services .
The services will run over a CDMA network , which means once 3G arrives the speed of services will vastly be enhanced .
Code-Division Multiple Access
In South Korea , the 3G license auction is serious business .
South Korea 's LG Group is reviewing its wireless strategy , including a partnership with British Telecom , after the government awarded the coveted licenses to its competitors .
LG Group will most likely sue the South Korean government .
The Portuguese government announced the country 's four 3G mobile licenses would be awarded to the three existing GSM operators , which are Telecommunicacoes Moveis Nacionais SA , Portugal Telecom , Telecel SA , and Optimus SA - ?
Ewhich is headed by the power utility company of Portugal .
Ericsson and Mexican operator Telcel will build and deploy a nationwide GSM and GPRS system in Mexico .
1ERIC3.SA
The network should be completed by mid-2002 .
Dialing Around : Kyocera will release in the first quarter of next year a PDA smart phone called the QCP 6035 .
KYO
Warning : It 's big and cluny .
Despite the technology 's promises , less than one percent of venture capitalists in the U.S. invested in the development of Bluetooth ?
E a wireless radio link that allows devices within 30 feet of each other to communicate ?
E according to the DVG Research unit of Daedalus Venture Group .
AT&T ( T is expecting less than stellar growth rates for the fourth quarter .
The telecom giant expects its overall earnings to grow between 2.5 and 3 percent , rather than the 4 to 5 percent it anticipated earlier in the year .
Federal Communications Commissioner Michael Powell is reportedly a strong contender for the chairmanship under the new Bush administration .
Qwest Communications (Q) will implement in the next year high bandwidth services in 39 rural communities in Arizona , Gov. Jane Hull announced last week .
Hewlett Packard and Sprint PCS are jointly selling a feature called " Openmail , " which allows employees to check their work e-mail on their mobile phones .
HWP
PCS
Lightbridge , a company dedicated to busting fraud , released a platform that would help telecom companies and wireless service providers detect fraud on their networks .




Who Killed the Diablo Devotees ?

Murderous thieves swept through the Kingdom of Khandaras over the weekend , causing what one observer said was nothing less than an " apocalypse . "
Khandaras , for those readers out of the loop , is n't a suburb of Siberia ; rather , it 's the fictitious land at the center of the role-playing video game Diablo II , which on Saturday became a virtual killing field of Diablo devotees , with top players getting plugged without even knowing what hit them .
And by the time the smoke cleared sometime on New Year 's Day , most people still did n't know what had technically caused the abrupt death of their characters .
Was it a hack ?
A crack ?
A bug ?
A mere cheat ?
Or something worse -- was it , in the words of some , a genocide ?
Or maybe even a cheap publicity stunt ?
Blizzard , the game 's manufacturer , is n't being specific about what caused the problem .
Multiplayer Diablo is played through Battle.net , Blizzard 's online gaming service , and on Tuesday a Battle.net systems operator said in a statement that the problem had been fixed .
Additionally , Battle.net will revive players who found themselves suddenly dead , and will provide a mechanism for players who lost " items " -- these being axes and amulets and such , the things that make a character powerful in Diablo -- to get back these possessions .
.
Interesting tangent : So valuable are these items to Diablo players that people actually pay money for them at auction sites
But what caused the problem in the first place ?
Blizzard said it preferred not to say : " We have n't specified the nature of the circumstances , " said Deborah Osborne , a company spokeswoman , explaining that to do so might weaken the security of its network .
further
Osborne added that Battle.net is monitored closely , and that technicians began fixing the problem as soon as they heard about it -- which was on Sunday , Dec. 31 .
Even though Blizzard is n't detailing what happened to the multiplayer characters , several players expressed their frustration about the problem on Diablo discussion groups all over the Internet , some wondering whether Blizzard itself -- and not elusive hackers -- was to blame for the player deaths .
That theory goes like this : The top-score rankings -- the " ladder , " it 's called -- were getting kind of static , and killing the best players would stir things up a bit , making Diablo even more exciting .
Some -- call them " extremists " if you like -- asked whether affected players had any legal options to pursue Blizzard and/or the real killers .
But in the end , it seemed , cooler heads prevailed , with players expressing real gratitude and surprise that Blizzard implemented a fix so swiftly .
Though the company may have had no option -- in the end , it may come out that a loophole in a recent Blizzard patch to Battle.net was the real cause of the problem .
" This sort of forced their hand , " said Nicholas Ryan , an avid Diablo II player who explained that the company almost never revives players that die due to " technical problems , " and that in this case , " it was their very own thing that was exploited . "




Dots Are Dead ; Long Live E-Biz

At this time last year , no doubt many ambitious MBAs were nestled all snug in their beds , while visions of startup millions danced in their heads .
This year , things have changed .
Nasdaq 's frigid winter has been like a nasty bath in the snow , turning those dot-com dreams into sleepless nights .
And yet students are still flocking to e-business programs .
But while just last year MBAs were eagerly entering business-plan competitions and competing for venture capital funding , now the students are focusing on a more basic theme : learning how the Internet is transforming the way business is done .
" The number of people who expect to get rich quick has shrunk , " said Charlie Fine , co-director of the e-business MBA track at MIT 's Sloan School of Management . "
Dot-coms are dead , but e-business is here to stay . "
Business schools believe the Net permeates all aspects of business curricula , and they do n't focus on dot-coms per se .
" We really have to recognize that we 're facing a shift in the economy , " said Andrew Whiston , director of the Center for Research in Electronic Commerce at the University of Texas-Austin . "
We 're moving more toward an Internet economy and we have to integrate that into all our business courses . "
Classes like Internet marketing , e-business technologies , supply chain strategies , customer experience design , and data mining and business intelligence , then , are relevant to more mainstream and traditional companies , not just dot-coms .
MIT 's Intro to E-Business section , in fact , is bursting at the seams .
Nearly half of the current class bid to take it , said Erik Brynjolfsson , co-director for the Center for eBusiness at MIT 's Sloan School .
about 200 students
The center itself has become the largest research center in the history of the graduate school . "
That says something about the growing interest , " Brynjolfsson said .
One student agreed that enthusiasm for e-businesses has not died with the stock market .
" I do n't think what is happening right now is deterring anyone from pursuing the program , " said Debra Simeone , who is working toward a master 's degree in electronic commerce at Carnegie Mellon . "
Everybody recognizes that e-commerce is still young .
" There are growing pains , " she said .
Nevertheless , some professors have seen a drop-off in the number of students who plan to start their own company .
" Entrepreneurship became way too popular , " said Mohan Sawhney , a professor of e-commerce and technology at Northwestern 's Kellogg Graduate School of Management .
He estimated that one in five students in the class of 2000 planned to become entrepreneurs .
Normally , he said , about 5 percent of a class pursue their own ventures .
Kellogg launched its technology and e-commerce major in the fall of 1999 .
Sawhney said he expects about 100 students to graduate this year with that particular major ; if dot-coms were performing better , he estimated that 150 would graduate with the major .
Students are less likely to submit business plans to venture capitalists now , as investors have become much more cautious UT 's Whiston said .
For students , " there 's less interest in writing which becomes a purely academic exercise , because they will n't get funding , " he said .
a business plan
Kellogg 's Sawhney said it 's no surprise that students are re-thinking a dot-com career .
" That 's only to be expected .
MBAs go where they see most financial gain , " Sawhney said , " The risks are becoming more and more salient in the startup environment . "




EToys to Lay Off 700 Workers

LOS ANGELES -- EToys , the troubled Internet toy retailer , will slash its work force by more than two-thirds and close its European operations .
After markets closed Thursday , the company said that 700 of its 1,000 eToys and BabyCenter employees will be let go .
About 380 were being fired Thursday , while the rest will lose their jobs by the end of March , when the company may run out of operating cash .
EToys , whose stock has lost more than 99 percent of its value in the past year , said it will also close its warehouse operations in Commerce , California and Greensboro , North Carolina during the next 30 to 60 days .
The e-tailer will consolidate them into existing facilities in Ontario , California , and Blairs , Virginia .
Shares of EToys were at 15.6 cents , down nearly 29 percent at the end of regular trading on Thursday .
The company 's stock bounced back more than 10 percent in after-hours trading , presumably in reaction to the layoffs .
EToys said it will continue to consider a range of strategic options , including a merger , asset sale , investment in the company or financial restructuring .
In mid-December , the retailer revised its earnings estimates and warned it would have to lay off staff because of poor holiday sales during the Thanksgiving holiday .
It also said it had only enough cash on hand to operate through the end of March .
At the time , the company blamed poor sales on " a harsh retail climate " caused by concerns over the economy , current attitudes toward Internet retailing , and consumers who have been " meaningfully distracted by the presidential election and its aftermath . "




TV Recorders Take Quantum Leap

LAS VEGAS -- The second generation of personal video recorders could give you a better view of football games than if you were on the 50-yard line .
PVR
At this week 's Consumer Electronics Show , hard drive maker Quantum is demonstrating a video system that will enable set-top boxes , televisions , gaming consoles and satellite TVs to provide multiple camera angles , new instant replay features and even more programming .
CES
Personal video recording will be one of the many television-computing convergence technologies at CES , which runs through Tuesday .
Quantum 's QuickView IEEE 1394 DVR Subsystem , which was announced earlier this week , extends the VCR-like programming and navigation features made popular by companies such as TiVo and ReplayTV by expanding the storage capacity and adding enhanced streaming video and file management technology .
HDD
Quantum has added customized software for file management , which controls multiple real-time streams simultaneously and receives television programming schedules to its hard disk technology that was originally developed for PCs , according to Bentley Nelson , director of strategic marketing at Quantum .
Nelson said broadcasters will develop new services that will distribute multiple audio- and videostreams in the background for later playback on Quickview-enabled recorders .
For example , satellite TV broadcasters can send images from multiple camera angles during a live sporting event or concert into a buffer on their PVR .
Fans will be able to select a variety of instant replay views , while the live feed continues to be received by the players .
Nelson said that pay-per-view broadcasters could similarly stream multiple movies over a single channel , and customers would then choose any movie to playback at a time of their choosing .
Quantum hard drives are used in the majority of PVR systems , including those from TiVo , ReplayTV and DirecTV .
Panasonic is the first consumer electronics company to license the Quickview technology , and Nelson expects the first devices to hit store shelves within 6 months .
Devices will likely include 40 gigabytes of storage , and Nelson expects that capacity to double within 14 months .
Nelson said that PVRs are replacements for VCRs , CD changers , set-top boxes and satellite receivers , and the overall market could be twice that of PC hard disks .
According to research firm IDC , the market for PVRs will continue will grow to 14 million units sold per year by the year 2004 .
Nelson said Quickview works with " 5C Content Protection , " a copyright technology used in encoding movies .
Quickview also supports the 1394 Function Control Protocol that enables multiple devices to be daisy-chained to create an " unlimited " audio or video archive , Nelson said .
Other top PVR competitors that will be showing off new products at CES will include Microsoft , TiVo , DirecTV and America Online .
Microsoft chief Bill Gates will deliver the Opening Keynote address at CES on Saturday , when he is expected to unveil the much anticipated Xbox gaming console .
He will likely demonstrate Microsoft 's latest iteration of the WebTV platform , which like the Quantum system , creates an integrated media management platform that links to the TV .




Apple Widens Mac OS X Code

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Darwin has finally evolved .
Darwin is the core of Apple 's new operating system , OS X. Apple made Darwin 's programming code accessible to anyone who wanted to download it so that developers could customize and enhance it and other Apple applications .
But many open source developers felt that Apple 's licensing agreement for Darwin was too restrictive , and that the entire project was perhaps just an opportunistic attempt by Apple to ride the open source bandwagon .
A new version of the Apple Public Source License 1.2 , released on Wednesday , addresses and alters all of the primary issues that many developers had problems with ; many programmers felt that the original APSL was heavily weighted towards Apple 's benefit .
APSL
Richard Stallman , founder of the GNU Project , said that previous versions of APSL had " three fatal flaws , any of which makes license unacceptable . "
the
Stallman cited problems that centered on Apple 's perceived lack of respect for open source developers and their work .
Earlier versions of the APSL did not allow developers to modify code for their personal use -- any and all changes had to be publicly distributed .
Stallman was also concerned about the APSL 's insistence that Apple be notified each and every time a developer made a change to source code .
Stallman also had problems with the APSL 's termination clause , which essentially allowed Apple to revoke the APSL agreement if anyone accused a developer of copyright or patent infringement and forbid the developer from continuing to use all or some part(s) of the software .
Stallman also had problems with " the termination clause that says that Apple can revoke this license , and forbid you to keep using all or some part of the software , any time someone makes an accusation of patent or copyright infringement . "
Under the terms of the new APSL , developers no longer need to distribute modifications made for personal use , are no longer required to notify Apple when code modifications are released , and the Infringement/Suspension clause has been removed ; developers are now responsible for securing all necessary rights themselves .
Stallman was unavailable for immediate comment on the new version of APSL , but many developers are pleased with it .
" Apple has jettisoned the vast majority of the most aggravating problems with the ASPL .
They took a big step in the right direction with this new license , " said Charlie Minsk , an open source programmer who said he has been longing to get involved in Apple development , but was held back by the terms of the APSL .
" I feel like I can really get involved with the Darwin project now , something that I could n't do before when I really felt the licensing terms were insulting and wrong , " said Minsk .
" I could n't see contributing code that would be released under a license I had major issues with .
But now , I think a lot of real open source software people will be psyched about working with Apple . "
A spokesperson for the Apple Open Source Development team said that the license was rewritten to respond to comments received from developers working on the project , and also to streamline and clarify the wording of the APSL license .
" OK , so the APSL still is n't a pure open source license , " said Kerry Novick , a developer involved with the Darwin project . "
And there are going to be some in the community who say that they would never release code with any type of license attached to it anyway . "
" But I feel , as do many other developers I 've spoken with and communicated with on Apple 's Darwin developers mailing list , that this is one of those once in a blue moon occurrences -- a big corporation just did something that actually makes more sense to regular people then it does to their legal team . "




The Future : Read All About It

Welcome , youthful seekers , this is your lucky day .
We know what the future holds -- some of us have even been there -- and we 're dying to fill you in.
The best part is this glimpse into 2001 comes at a price that even you downsized dot-commers can afford .
It 's free .
So hold on to your stock options and start reading .
The future is almost here .
You might as well know what you 've signed up for .
Eric Eaton , Wired Digital design director , on the big picture :
Man-made constellations : There will be a bill in the House of Representatives to limit or prohibit the launching of satellites that are visible from earth .
This is sparked by a Coca-Cola constellation launched on July 4 .
Practical terrorism : Millions watch as the international space station is destroyed by terrorists .
The time and date of the downing of the third-brightest object in the night sky was posted on www.terror-link.org .
Terror-link is a loose consortium of terrorist organizations -- the site allows the consortium to gauge effectiveness and public opinion of terrorist acts .
Within minutes of the event , the terror-link chat rooms were filled with disappointed spectators who expected a vivid explosion , but had to settle for the light of the solar panels merely going out .
MyLife PC cards : This add-on to your Palm Pilot clips to your belt .
and jams a small spike into your hip
It monitors your heart rate , blood sugar , hormones , and more .
Bio feedback keeps you apprised of your heart rate and blood pressure .
At the end of the day , or after a work out , plug it into your PC : " Welcome , you 're Hypo-Glycemic ! "
Handy pull-down menus help you select a preset profile for the next day :
10 percent more sugar
5 percent more sugar
5 percent more ir??n
20 percent more sex drive Do n't be surprised if your insurance company e-mails you , complaining that your cholesterol is sky-high .
Hooverville.com , a MUD for the new millennium : Thousands of unemployed Internet professionals go on a virtual bummer .
In a mass act of solidarity/desperation , 800,000 ex-Internet professionals in New York , San Francisco and Austin move their e-mail addresses and rsum sites to hooverville.com .
There , twenty-somethings swap war stories , review lines of code , recommend each other for jobs as the largest ad-hoc unemployment network in history .
For every 10 job referrals you make , you receive a virtual box to add to your cardboard domicile .
Each box is worth a 10 percent discount at BestBuy , Radio Shack and Kinko 's .
Hooverville.com is a registered trademark of the Republican Party .
Kevin Cooke , Wired Digital director of engineering , sorts it out : It will n't be at all about technology differentiation , but about making money .
With so much venture capital money chasing so few new tech ideas , most startups that differentiate themselves on technology , rather than on business models , will be just that much more dot-com detritus .
Those few new tech ideas that do stick -- a la Napster -- will be hailed as revolutionary by the techbiz media , ignorant as ever of history and lacking perspective .
The people who do n't care about the Internet as a medium will finally be scared off .
Geeks will rule the suits , finally .
No more X2X acronyms and marketspeak , dammit !
For those of us left in the industry : Our options may continue to be worthless , but we will still have interesting jobs , at least .
Doug Beeferman , Lycos research developer , on P2P : Most of the peer to peer activity on the Net today is the exchange of pirated music and porn .
It 's not surprising that the first few applications of this concept are illicit in some way .
Next year we will witness the growth of peer to peer as a search paradigm , not just for specific categories such as student term papers but also for general Web search .
Websites will opt-in to networks of actively indexed content .
It will gradually become possible for users to do an up-to-the-moment search of the Web , so that changes made to any page are instantaneously reflected in the results of the smartest search engines .
The need for these search engines to be scalable and accurate yet decentralized will motivate the study of algorithms that route requests to desired content in these networks .
Peer to peer sharing will bring new value to the Web but also a danger .
Increasingly , students will come to see the Internet as an exhaustive , infallible knowledge source , and they will do all of their research on the Web , overlooking the vastly larger amount of knowledge that is still undigitized or not digitizable .
Also , plagiarism will become rampant , and it will not find a countermeasure in technology alone .
On a happier note , we will come to realize that the " tech meltdown " of 2000 was only about dumb business models , not about the promise of the Internet .
The fundamental value of the Internet -- its utility for enlightening and connecting people -- will continue to grow .
Brad King , Wired News reporter , spins the future of music :
Shape up and sell out .
That 's the last , best business plan for those lucky digital music companies who survived the earth-scorching chaos of Chapter 11s that hit the industry this past year .
High-profile litigation from the recording industry against Napster and MP3.com scared off the venture capitalists , ensuring the flameouts of companies such as Riffage.com before they could get their business legs .
Now , the pending merger of America Online-Time Warner and the emergence of multinational corporations Vivendi and Bertelsmann in the digital space cast a long shadow over the future of music .
Look for a flurry of fire sales as the three giants try to buy their way into the infrastructure and distribution markets .
And look for digital music companies to continue to get squeezed out of existence .
And for those left without a home after the coming spending spree , well , there 's always the scrap heap .
Declan McCullagh , Wired News reporter , on a visible Washington :
One surprise in 2001 -- anonymity will suddenly become a hot topic of conversation .
Do we have the right to stay anonymous online and shield our privacy , or will law enforcement concerns prevail ?
The Feds will start talking about requiring ISPs and websites to keep detailed records about their customers , just in case a future investigation requires it .
The trend of failed B2C tech companies will extend to the privacy realm .
Zero Knowledge of Montreal could run out of cash by mid-2001 .
Second-tier firms will follow suit .
HavenCo , on Sealand , will n't get enough customers to stay afloat .
B2B privacy companies will have better luck .
But the market will finally learn that polls are unreliable : People do n't care that much about privacy , and are usually unwilling to pay more for it .




Gates Gives An Electric Intro

LAS VEGAS , Nevada -- The 2001 Consumer Electronics Show kicked off with the formal introduction of the Microsoft Xbox gaming console by none other than chairman Bill Gates himself .
CES
Gates offered very little new details on the console beyond the outside design of the unit .
Microsoft went through more than 100 designs , according to Gates , before settling on the form of choice , a black box with a large " X " shape in the plastic molding on the top .
It 's very large by console standards , almost as big as a desktop PC , and will come with built-in 100 Mbit Ethernet networking for broadband connections , support for high definition television and has four USB-based plugs on the front for game controllers .
HDTV
The game controllers are also upgradeable , with two PC Card-sized slots for expansion .
The controllers also have forced feedback , so the gamer will feel the vibrations of crashes and explosions .
Beyond that , there was n't a whole lot of detail .
The price was not disclosed and Gates would only give a ship date as " this fall . "
He did say the hardware was largely completed and the prototype that was shown is what would ship , both inside and out .
The only hardware still under development are the video controller chips , which are being done by graphics hotshot nVidia .
Gates said the 3-D chips in the Xbox would be three times faster than anything on the market and offer nearly unlimited graphical visuals . "
We 're approaching the level of detail seen in Toy Story 2 , " he said , referring to the computer-generated kids film from Disney/Pixar .
" Game developers will finally be able to develop games as they can visualize it in their minds , without having restrictions placed on them due to performance . "
During the demos , Gates repeatedly stressed that the current hardware and software were reflecting only one-fifth of the Xbox 's capabilities .
One of the first games on Xbox will be WWF Raw is War , and Gates decided rather than show one-fifth of a wrestler to have the full demo .
With that , in came World Wrestling Federation star Dwayne " The Rock " Johnson , who amused the audience by constantly talking about himself in the third person and putting Gates over with terms not usually associated with the turnbuckle-and-tights show he belongs to .
It looked like one of the few times , if ever , that the Microsoft boss looked intimidated .
What really drew a response from the audience , however , was a demonstration of the Pocket PC Plus , an enhanced handheld system with voice recognition .
The demo , run on a Compaq iPaq handheld , recognized full sentences dictated by voice in the auditorium , which was full of echoes , and even recognized commends to send e-mail and to schedule a meeting with an individual at a certain time .
Microsoft also demonstrated its forthcoming Whistler operating system , which will have a redesigned interface and a whole new infrastructure for data sharing .
One demo included taking pictures from a digital camera and sending them to a personal website and an electronic picture display mounted in the home , all in a few clicks .
The company also demonstrated a digital radio where the content , such as music or news , comes from the PC .
" The PC remains the place where you will store all of your information , but in the future , you will have more and more items connected to it , " said Gates . "
As they all come together , these pieces are about an overall digital lifestyle . "
The pieces are obviously selling well .
Before Gates spoke , Consumer Electronics Association president Gary Shapiro spoke , telling the crowd that consumer electronics sales rose 10 percent in 2000 , from $ 81 billion to a little over $ 90 billion , and that number is expected to reach $ 96 billion this year .
More than 625,000 HDTV units were sold for a total of $ 1.4 billion alone while DVD continues to enjoy the fastest acceptance of any consumer device , with 8.2 million units sold in 2000 alone .
Shapiro also announced a meeting next week among HDTV broadcasters and developers to set a single standard for HDTV transmissions , and that on March 6 there would be a meeting in Washington , D.C. between copyright holders and digital media companies to try and reach some agreements on how content can go digital while respecting copyrights .




MP3.com Looks Home for Harmony

The future of digital music entertainment runs through MP3.com .
MP3.com CEO Michael Robertson helped roll out new hardware and software applications designed to connect listeners with their music without using their computer .
Dubbed " The Next Generation of My.MP3 " after his controversial music-streaming service , the new service model seeks to connect listeners , retailers and labels .
" Today , the act of buying a CD , playing it on a stereo , and then putting that music in an online locker consists of three separate transactions , " Robertson said in a written statement . "
We expect to change that process by connecting a music retailer with a device manufacturer and an online locker service in a way that will make it one transaction . "
MP3.com is hanging its hat on the connectivity of home entertainment , something that some analysts believe might not be coming very soon .
Still , IDC analyst Malcolm Maclachlan said the company had no reason to hold back now that much of its legal troubles are behind it .
" The overall idea about music is right , " Maclachlan said . "
They 've already shelled out $ 180 million in lawsuits , so they have no incremental disadvantage to rolling out their innovations slowly .
Even if this does n't catch on right away , I do n't think they should shy away from being as far out at front as they can . "
Robertson , never one to shy away from anything , seemed to agree .
A key component to his vision is the Music Interoperating System , which is a fancy name for the new set of tools that MP3.com is making available to the industry .
" Before , the retail guys did stuff on their own , " Robertson said . "
The software guys did stuff on their own .
The hardware guys did stuff on their own .
We looked at the problems , and thought we needed to find a way to connect all these devices . "




Palm , Sprint Go After MS Vocally

Palm aficionados will soon have voice services on their handheld devices , or if they prefer , a smart phone running on the Palm operating system , according to Palm and Sprint PCS officials who unveiled a host of products to be released this year .
In a move analysts say will n't help Palm stave off competition by Microsoft 's Pocket PC team , Palm and Sprint PCS announced they would release products that would enable Palm users to access digital voice and data services over the Sprint PCS code-division multiple-access network .
PALM
PCS
" Customers will have a richer browsing experience than they have now , " Sprint PCS chief operating officer Charles Levine said .
The companies said they would co-brand and jointly release a kit that includes a data cable , a Palm handheld adapter , a CD-ROM and a guide telling Palm III and Palm V users how they can access content on Sprint 's wireless Web and Palm 's new portal .
Palm VII devices are already wirelessly enabled through BellSouth .
The Sprint PCS kit is expected to be in the Palm Store in early 2001 , according to company representatives .
By the middle of the year , Sprint PCS plans to release a smart phone with personal information management capabilities that run on the Palm OS .
The phone service carrier has also committed itself to release a CDMA wireless modem for Palm handhelds -- an indicator that Palm has done a poor job in locking up hardware manufacturers , analysts say .
The companies say they are targeting business users who want to access corporate e-mail and stock quotes and receive real-time news and other information .
Users will be charged a flat fee for airtime , whether they use it for making calls or accessing data .
Any airtime beyond that outlined by their plan will be charged on a minute-by-minute basis , no matter how it is used .
While both companies will benefit from reaching out to each other 's customers and increasing their traffic , the partnership does n't help Palm stave off competition from nemesis Microsoft , analysts say .
Both Microsoft and Palm are targeting business consumers .
But Microsoft has the advantage of dominance in the workplace with its Windows software installed on desktop computers .
As for offering CDMA voice services , analysts are expecting Microsoft to announce its own partnerships with phone service carriers this year .
" There are quite a few business users taking a hard look at Microsoft because of the migration of services , " Gartner Group analyst Phil Redman said .
Palm CEO Carl Yankowski , however , made it a point in a recent press conference to strike down the notion the company was losing its foothold in the business market .
Yankowski also said that since 30 percent of its revenues come from abroad , the company would soon announce partnerships with foreign phone service providers .
" Despite the media attention on Pocket PCs , Palm is already the handheld of choice in the enterprise , " Yankowski said .
Barely .
" It seems like Palm is everywhere but there are only 12 million devices , " Redman said . "
There 's no way a winner can be pronounced in this market .
" It 's just the beginning . "




Vaporware ?
Ha !
Linux 2.4 Arrives

Perhaps the Wired News Vaporware List is a good motivator , because two weeks after winning a high spot on the list , the Linux 2.4 kernel has been released .
The announcement was made in a rather low-key way on the Linux Kernel Mailing List by Linux creator , Linus Torvalds , who sarcastically announced , " In a move unanimously hailed by the trade press and industry analysts as being a sure sign of incipient brain damage , Linus Torvalds decided that enough is enough , and that things do n't get better from having the same people test it over and over again .
also known as the ' father of Linux ' or , more commonly , as ' mush-for-brains '
In short , 2.4.0 is out there . "
The kernel is available on the main distribution site .
The kernel is more than a year late and has been delayed almost as often as operating systems from a certain Washington-based software company .
Torvalds had promised the 2.4 kernel for the fall of 1999 , and then pushed it off several more times .
However , Linux developers think it 's worth the wait and the delay was a good thing .
" I 'm glad he did n't put it out a year ago just because he promised to do so , " said Preston Brown , president of Linux OS engineering at Red Hat , the most widely used commercial Linux distribution on the market . "
There were a lot of major improvements made between then and now .
A lot of low-level stuff needed to be rewritten , like memory management and changes in the scheduler . "
The 2.4 kernel contains improvements for desktop users , but the emphasis is on the high end .
Most notable for desktop users is support for the Universal Serial Bus , which will give Linux users many more peripherals to choose from .
USB
On the server side , the changes include greatly improved support for symmetric multiprocessing , multi-threaded networking throughput , and SCSI and RAID disk support and throughput is also much faster .
SMP
The multi-threaded networking protocols means websites will be able to handle much more traffic , said Brown , while the improvements in SMP means it will scale up to a 16-processor machine .
The 2.2 kernel does have some SMP support , but performance levels out beyond four processors , he said .
The two-year gap between the 2.2 kernel and 2.4 is n't an issue for Linux developers , who see the APIs and interfaces around the kernel as far more important . "
Why would an individual need the 2.4 kernel ? " asked Mark Bolzern , founder of LinuxMall.com , a major online store for Linux products . "
The only thing it really applies to is people running it on the bleeding edge . "
" We were n't heavily hampered by not having a 2.4 kernel , " said Brown . "
The only thing that held us back were apps for the high end , like databases that need raw I/O access .
Certainly two years is right on track with other software vendors releases for new operating systems .
The rest of our OS has n't sat static while we waited for the kernel . "




Call Waiting : A Cell Phone ATM

Grabbing a burger is getting easier .
Soon you will just have to wave your cell phone as you pass McDonald 's drive-through .
Immediate gratification is always the best marketing tool .
Nokia is testing a new SmartCover for its 5100 Series phones that will act just like a debit card .
NOK
Tollbooth car tags and the ExxonMobile SpeedPass use the same technology and their users number in the millions .
To buy a Big Mac , the consumer pays a bill by holding a Nokia 5100 up to a scanner .
The scanner contacts a wireless network , and payment is deducted from a credit card or account .
The SmartCover Xpress-on contains a Texas Instruments chip that uses a short-range radio frequency transmission to send payment information to the scanner .
Expected to hit the stores before June , the snap-on cover works in conjunction with the 2 Scoot wireless network of Hudson Valley , New York .
The company specializes in cash-less transaction processing systems .
Currently the 2 Scoot technology is used to authorize and clear payments for credit cards and pay-at-the-pump gas stations .
The radio frequency identification chip is the size of a pencil eraser , said Rick Heimann , marketing strategist for Texas Instruments .
RFID
Acting as a passive transponder , the chip is activated when placed in the scanner 's radio frequency field .
The area of the field is usually 2 to 8 inches .
There is no dialing , no ATM , no fumbling for a wallet or dropped coins -- only radio-frequency burgers .
Nokia plans to market the RFID and SmartCover to retail , banking and other service industries that offer cash-less transactions and loyalty marketing programs .
" The RFID is also a personal identifier .
At the time of the transaction , the restaurant can send back to the users coupons or other information to their wireless device , " Heimann said .
Is this yet another invasion of privacy ?
More unwanted marketing ?
Or is it simply a version of an " electronic purse ? "
The RFID-equipped phone follows the trend of customized marketing that plagues Internet users and credit card owners .
But Nokia insists it will reduce the number of debits and " rewards " that SmartCards consumers must paw through when shopping .
Phone users will control which card is used or where the money for payment comes from .
" It is also a way to improve customer service , " said Michael Liard , a market researcher for Venture Development in Natick , Massachusetts .
The convenience of the transaction may soothe consumer reluctance , Liard said .
However , the real issues delaying the adoption of the RFID-equipped SmartCover are concerns over the transmission of banking information over the airwaves .




No Whiners at AOL

LAS VEGAS -- E-tailers may be crying over slow sales and eToys is circling the drain , but AOL had a boffo Christmas , according to Barry Schuler , president of the Interactive Services Group at America Online .
In his keynote speech here at the Consumer Electronics Show , Schuler said AOL subscribers spent $ 20 billion this year online , doubling last year 's $ 10 billion in online sales .
CES
" It 's interesting to note that this is the first year brick and mortar retail sales were flat and online purchases grew and grew , " he said .
He added that more than half of AOL 's subscribers do e-commerce and more than 60 percent of its subscriber base expects to have every room in their house wired in the near future .
AOL certainly has the traffic .
Schuler reported that AOL 's 26 million users send and receive 166 million e-mails per day and exchange more than 660 million instant messages daily .
AOL 's person-to-person messaging is now double the daily traffic of the US Post Office , Schuler said .
- - -
Turn Up the Volume , Hal : Electronics continue to get smarter .
Blaupunkt introduced a new car stereo that determines the best way to set up the sound inside your car .
The Digital Sound Adjustment listens to the acoustics of the car , including taking into account bodies being in the car and sound bouncing off them , and automatically adjusts the sound so it 's well centered for the listeners .
The DSA also automatically compensates for noises , such as tires or engine noise , and compensates at those noise levels to cover up the offending noises in the car .
The DSA comes in the Blaupunkt San Francisco CD70 player , which will cost $ 699 and is available this month .
- - -
But Where 's the Gas Station ? : Casio introduced a global positioning system on a watch , literally .
The Satellite Navi PAT-2GP watch has a satellite-based GPS tracking system built in to tell you your latitude and longitude anywhere in the world .
The PC link that comes with the watch helps you translate your position into something usable , like a location on a map .
The map also has a landmark tracker , allowing you to store up to 200 locations of your own choosing , and it even has an alarm to let you know when you are approaching your target .
Oh yeah , it 's also a watch that tells the time .
The price is $ 499 and it will be out at the end of the year .
- - -
One Less Item to Carry : You probably have a Palm Pilot and a cell phone .
Why not both in one unit ?
Kyocera Wireless introduced the Kyocera QCP 6035 Smartphone , which combines a Palm Pilot III with a cell phone that 's fully Internet-ready .
The phone is HTML- and WAP-enabled and supports Qualcomm 's Eudora e-mail client , so you can download and send mail from your cell phone .
The unit will have 4.5 hours of talk time or 110 hours of standby time .
It will be available this quarter , for between $ 449 to $ 549 .
- - -
Tax-free computers : Last year seven states declared one-week suspensions of the sales tax on computers as a way to encourage more households to get online .
The temporary moratorium works in bridging the digital divide and may soon be adopted in most states , according to government representatives and computer manufacturers who spoke on the subject of tax holidays at CES .
During tax-free weeks in Pennsylvania and South Carolina , sales of PCs at Radio Shack stores in the two states went up 400 and 600 percent respectively , according to Radio Shack 's Ron Parrish .
Pennsylvania Department of Revenue official Tom Armstrong agreed that the initiative was a success , saying retail computer sales across the state were up 60 percent during the tax-free week in August , which was promoted as a " back-to-school " initiative .
Panel members said that removing the 6 to 8 percent sales tax is much more effective in encouraging consumers to buy than even a 20 percent storewide sales .
But Why ?
Because people like to get something for free from the government more than from retailers , according to Mandy Rafool , who works for the non-profit National Conference of State Legislature , which advises states on policy issues .
But tax holidays currently only apply to computers and the software packaged with them .
States are considering broadening the tax-free status to include handheld computers , Internet appliances and peripherals in the future .




Digital VHS Takes On DVD

LAS VEGAS -- The DVD , which has plenty of problems already , could be dealt a further blow from a new format that comes in a package we 're all familiar with : VHS tape .
Now , with DVD bogged down in legal problems surrounding DeCSS and copy protection , and the failure of the industry to come to an agreement on a single standard for recording , JVC is hoping lightning will strike twice with its VHS format through a new Digital VHS , or D-VHS .
JVC introduced the new D-VHS tape at the Consumer Electronics Show along with a high definition television set that protects high definition content from being copied .
CES
HDTV
Video on D-VHS tapes is uncompressed , so it 's enormous .
A 75 GB hard disk would only hold around 30 minutes of the video , according to company officials , making the trading of HD content over the Internet impossible .
D-VHS can record and play back up to four hours of video in high definition mode -- up to 1,080 lines per screen width , or more than double the resolution of DVD , according to Allan Holland , national product specialist in the consumer video division at JVC .
It can also record at the standard VHS resolution of 240 lines per screen width .
JVC was originally the Victor Company , which developed the VHS format in the mid-1970s and was bought out by Japanese investors that renamed it Victor Company of Japan .
It won a format war in the early 1980s with Sony 's Betamax technology to become the de facto home video recording and playback standard .
With twice the resolution of DVD and a high definition recording option , D-VHS could give DVD a major run for its money , since the recordable standard for DVD still is n't set and now DVD discs are vulnerable to piracy .
D-VHS also has the benefit of full backwards compatibility with VHS tape . "
You could have one piece in your stereo for everything with D-VHS , " said Holland . "
Of course , as the developers of VHS , I 'd like to think we 're going give DVD some major competition . "
A new Macrovision copy protection system prevents the duplication of tapes by copying from one digital deck to another .
The content is encrypted with a High Definition Copy Protection system JVC developed that is similar in function to the Content Scrambling System on a DVD .
HDCP
CSS
The HDCP system can n't be broken , however , because only high definition sets will have the HDCP decoder , according to Dan McCarron , national product specialist in JVC 's color TV division .
JVC 's high definition television set uses the Digital Video Interface that Intel developed for PCs and high definition television sets .
DVI
DVI ports on PCs will not have the HDCP decoder , so PCs can n't be used to break HDCP like it did with CSS .
So , with the combination of massive video size and the fact that HDCP decoders are only in high definition sets , McCarron thinks it has the answer to Hollywood 's concerns over content protection .
" One of the reasons Hollywood studios support this is because the video is uncompressed , " McCarron said . "
By compressing it , it 's easier to transmit over the Internet because it 's smaller .
Because of its size when uncompressed , it 's harder to trade or copy . "
JVC is mustering Hollywood support .
Fox Home Video , Universal Pictures and New Line Cinema have already agreed to support D-VHS and JVC claims more are looking to jump on board .
But do n't declare your DVD player obsolete just yet .
The JVC D-VHS deck , which should be available around May , will sell for approximately $ 2,000 , while blank media will cost between $ 10 and $ 15 .
JVC 's only TV to support HDCP is the D'Ahlia system , which will sell for a whopping $ 10,000 when it ships this summer .




Squeeze Boxes : Music Gets Small

LAS VEGAS -- The Consumer Electronics Show is always full of eye-opening gadgets , many of which either never see the light of day , or take years to get off the ground .
Take Sony 's MiniDisc , for example .
First introduced in 1992 , MiniDisc has only recently started to make headway .
With some new momentum , Sony has upgraded the format without invalidating the media .
The electronics giant introduced a new MiniDisc format that uses the existing disc but stores up to five hours of music .
The higher capacity comes from a new compression routine that simply packs the music tighter on the disc .
The original MiniDiscs can be reused on the new MZR-700 portable player , which is only a little larger than the disc itself and will sell for $ 250 when it ships in March .
The MXD-D40 home stereo unit , which can record from a CD at 4x the playback speed , will sell for $ 300 when it ships in March or April , Sony says .
- - -
Size matters : On an even smaller scale , DataPlay introduced its DataPlay digital media , a multi-format media about the size of a quarter that can be used in a variety of devices , similar to Flash memory modules .
The DataPlay module can hold up to 500 MB of data , or around 11 hours of MP3 files , or 250 high resolution pictures .
DataPlay has the support of the Universal Music Group , Creative Labs , Samsung and Toshiba , which are all investors .
The discs will cost between $ 5 and $ 12 , depending on capacity .
- - -
Jukebox heroes : A pair of less-flashy MP3 player were on display at the Mutli Technology Equipment booth .
The players blurred the lines between PC and stereo equipment .
The Neo Jukebox 2100/2200 is a Gameboy-sized unit with 10 or 20 GB 3.5-inch hard disk that connects to a PC using a USB port .
You can make it your MP3 walkman , or if you want , plug it into the computer and use it as a hard disk .
The 10 GB version sells for $ 459 while the 20 GB version is $ 549 .
The Neo 35 operates under the same concept , playing MP3s off a standard hard disk , but it 's built into a mobile rack that mounts in either your car or in a 5.25-inch drive bay on the PC .
The 30 GB version is $ 479 .
- - -
Living in stereo : Do n't feel like using your computer to play MP3s ?
Spent a fortune on a stereo ?
Then play your MP3s right off the Internet on your stereo .
Panja introduced the BMP-100 , a set-top box that downloads MP3 files and plays them on a home stereo .
The company has a deal with MP3.com to allow customers to download and play all the MP3s they want .
All that 's needed is a broadband connection .
The price is $ 400 for the player plus $ 10 per month for the subscription to content on MP3.com .
- - -
Handy Linux PDA : Royal Electronics introduced a Linux-based PDA , called Linia that uses Intel StrongARM processor .
Like most PDAs , it uses a graphical interface and has the basic application suite , including a personal information manager , calendar , notebook , and phone book .
But unlike most handheld devices , it will run many Linux applications .
Its high refresh rate allows it to run many Linux graphical applications with minimal code tweaking required .
The Linia 's input mechanism is rather unique .
Rather than using a pen-like stylus , it comes with a plastic ring that is worn over the tip of the finger with a point on the end .
The Linia will come with 16 MB of memory and 8 MB of flash ROM for storing Linux and the applications .
It will have ports on the top and bottom of the unit for things like PC Card connectivity , an MP3 player or a modem .
It will sell for $ 300 when it ships in May .
- - -
DVD camcorder : Panasonic is moving away from the compact VHS-C media for camcorders with the introduction of the VDR-M10 , a recordable DVD camcorder .
The media holds 2.8 GB of video per side , which translates to 30 minutes of video per side if recorded in DVD-quality video or one hour per side if recorded in standard video quality .
In addition , the VDR-M10 can function as a 1.1 megapixel digital camera and hold thousands of pictures .
The DVD-RAM media can be read and then edited on any PC with a DVD-RAM drive , or the video can be played back in a DVD player that reads DVD-RAM discs , which Panasonic plans to introduce this summer .
Price for the camcorder has not been determined .




Hello Macworld , Hello Fast Macs

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
As expected , Apple CEO Steve Jobs introduced four fast new Macs at Macworld San Francisco on Tuesday , sporting G4 CPUs running at speeds from 466 MHz to 733 MHz .
The new Power Mac G4 line also features also features high-performance architecture with 133 MHz system and memory buses , five slots for increased expandability , and CD-RW drives in all models .
Jobs also unveiled Apple 's new SuperDrive , an all-in-one CD-RW/DVD-R drive that can read and write DVDs which can then be played in consumer DVD players .
burn
The Apple SuperDrive will come standard in the top Power Mac G4 model .
The new 466 and 533 MHz Power Mac G4s are available immediately and the 667 and 733 MHz Power Mac G4s will be available in February .
Only the new 533 MHz Mac will be offered in a dual chip model .
Also announced was the Titanium PowerBook G4 featuring PowerPC G4 processors with 500 MHz CPUs , 15.2-inch displays , slot-loading DVD drive , and a promised 5 hour battery life &mdash; packaged in a one-inch thick Titanium case weighing just 5.3 pounds .
diagonal
" The Titanium PowerBook G4 is the most revolutionary portable computer ever created , " Apple CEO Steve Jobs said . "
It 's a ' supercomputer to go ' in terms of performance , yet it 's thinner and sexier than the best sub-notebooks . "
Jobs said that Apple 's new motto would be " Power To Burn . "
He also stated that Apple 's new operating system , OS X , now has an official ship date of Saturday , March 24 and the system will be priced at $ 129 .
OS X will come pre-loaded on all new Macs beginning this July .
Four-hundred developers have announced support and 1,200 applications have been developed for OS X , Jobs said .
Jobs also announced " iTunes " a new application , which Jobs said is the " uber-music client " .
During that announcement , Jobs danced to the B52 's " Love Shack . "
ITunes allows users to manage their audio collections and rip songs from CDs , and transfer music to portable audio players by dragging and dropping files .




Bluetooth Shows Off at CES

LAS VEGAS , Nevada -- The Consumer Electronics Show is usually the grand coming out party for many new technologies , and this year 's show is no exception .
CES
A number of pavilions have been set up for some of the emerging technology concepts with multiple vendor support , one of them being the Bluetooth wireless standard .
Bluetooth is an intelligent wireless communication technology that overcomes several shortfalls of infrared -- namely , its lack of range and requirement of a line of sight .
Infrared works great with two Palm Pilots pointed at each other and three feet apart , but at a distance , or with anything between the two IR lenses , it does n't work well .
Infrared also requires manual transmission and can only transmit data , not instructions .
Bluetooth solves all that .
It has a range of up to 30 feet and works through walls .
You can send just data or instructions for the recipient machine on what to do with that data .
The 1.0 specification was only finalized last year , and developers are now working on products .
One thing that can be said , Bluetooth certainly has industry support .
More than 2,000 hardware and software companies are working on Bluetooth products , according to Mike Whitmire , product manager for new products at 3Com and a member of the Bluetooth Special Interest Group , which developed the spec .
SIG
The only real demo of useable Bluetooth technology was in the 3Com and Hewlett-Packard booths , where a 3Com Bluetooth PC Card sent data to an HP inkjet printer , no cable required . "
Bluetooth will be a cable replacement technology initially , but the market has much more use for it that is just a cable replacement , " said Whitmire .
As development ramps up , Bluetooth is expected to offer more advanced capabilities , such as eliminating the need to plug a PDA into a cradle to synchronize data with PCs .
Another potential use is a single phone that operates as a land line when used in the owner 's home , but then operates as a cell phone when the user is outside the home .
Whitmire said specific groups are working on advancing the printing , audio , imaging and handheld device capabilities .
3Com and TDK both were showing off PC Cards for laptops that allow the laptop to wirelessly send data to Bluetooth devices .
TDK and 3Com both displayed transmitters that plug into the USB port .
Both companies also showed off access points -- hub-like devices that increase the transmission range of a Bluetooth signal from the normal 30 feet to 200 feet , again through walls .
The 3Com Wireless Bluetooth PC Card will sell for $ 119 , while the 3Com Wireless Bluetooth USB Adapter will sell for $ 109 ; both products are expected to be available in late March .
The 3Com Wireless Access Point 1000 will sell for approximately $ 500 when it comes out in the summer .
The TDK PCMCIA Card will be out in April for $ 150 while the TDK USB Adapter will ship at the same time for $ 140 .
The Access Point device will run $ 250 and be available in July .
For software developers , Cambridge Silicon Radio is offering the CASIRA Bluetooth Development Kit and the BlueCore single chip implementation of Bluetooth technology .
The kit includes full documentation of the specification , tools for writing , testing and debugging code , and hardware modules for testing the transmission of the data .
The kit can be ordered from the CSR website .
Socket Communications introduced its Digital Phone Card Connection Kit , a flash card-sized adapter for any handheld device that enables it to transmit data to a Bluetooth recipient .
DPC
It can be used in GSM or CDMA digital phones or PDAs that use Microsoft Pocket PC operating system .
The cards will ship at the end of the first quarter or in early Q2 at an estimated price of between $ 149 and $ 179 .




Schools Get a Helping Handheld

Pencils , protractors , compasses , folders ... add handheld devices to the list of school supplies that some believe are essential for today 's classroom .
Instead of lugging a laptop to class or trooping to the computer lab , students at Consolidated High School District 230 in Orland Park , Ill. , are carrying their computer in the palms of their hand .
And after a semester of successfully incorporating the devices into class lessons , the school district plans to expand the program next year .
" This is going to be the dominant technology that students use at school , " said Darrell Walery , director of technology for the district .
The district 's three high schools rolled out 2,200 Palm IIIxe handhelds this fall in what is believed to be the largest experiment of its kind in public schools .
" A lot of technology-rich programs center around one grade level , one teacher or one ability , " Walery said . "
We have teachers from all different subject areas in the program . "
Andrew Lech , a freshman at Amos Alonzo Stagg High School , uses the Palm in nearly all of his courses .
Lech writes essays in English class on the handheld and skips the trip to the school media center .
He keeps track of his homework and instantly averages his grades on the device . "
I do n't like writing in my assignment notebook , " he said . " is more interactive .
The Palm
It 's a lot better . "
Instead of lugging around a dictionary for Spanish class , he uses a translation application for the Palm .
In his honors algebra class , he uses the device as a graphing calculator .
The sophomore biology classes taught by Laurie Ritchey at Carl Sandburg High School use the Palms to instantly graph data during lab experiments .
To measure dissolved oxygen in a pond , students plugged in a probe to the handhelds and dropped the probe in the water .
The Palm then recorded and graphed the data .
The portability of the device was essential . "
Normally you can n't be rolling a computer out to a pond , " Ritchey said .
In another project , students use the devices to predict and analyze their " ecological footprint , " a measure of the resources each person uses .
To do the experiment , students recorded " a massive amount of data " on the device including information about their homes , cars , food , recycling and the number of cotton clothes they wear .
A lesson on mitosis incorporated the Palm as well .
Students used a sketchpad program to draw the different stages of mitosis , which then became animated when the student finished .
Ritchey was one of 65 volunteer teachers who spent a week last summer learning to use the Palms .
She admitted that incorporating the device into the classroom has been time-consuming .
But the payoffs have been worth it , she said .
" You 're teaching the same things but it 's a more innovative way of teaching , " she said . "
The kids are more enthused . "
Walery said the district decided to introduce a large number of Palms all at once because otherwise , " it 's hard to tell how results transfer to different situations , " Walery said .
a small number of




Net Earnings Off to Shaky Start

Yahoo got the Internet earnings season off to a less-than-optimal start Wednesday with a mixed message for investors about profits and future prospects .
The company , typically the first large Internet firm to report quarterly earnings , came forward with profit numbers that were largely in line with Wall Street expectations .
However , its stock got slammed in after-hours trading after executives warned of slowing growth in 2001 .
Yahoo 's stock fell 20 percent in after-hours trading following the earnings report , hitting a low for the year of $ 24.63 .
In a conference call with investors Wednesday afternoon , Yahoo executives talked up the company 's prospects for building up its global base of users and drawing more business from large corporate customers .
YHOO
But they also warned that in the short term , a global economic slowdown and the curtailment of dot-com spending would take their toll .
" 2001 will be a transition year , " said Susan Decker , Yahoo 's chief financial officer .
Over the next several quarters , she said , the company expects to make less money selling advertising to other Internet companies , and will concentrate on doing more business with larger , more established firms .
i.e. , companies that are n't on the verge of bankruptcy because no one wants to pay more than 50 cents for their stock
In the short term , the transition will n't do wonders for Yahoo 's bottom line .
The company said it expects to report revenue of $ 1.2 billion to $ 1.3 billion for the year 2001 .
That 's below the more-than $ 1.4 billion analysts had been predicting before the earnings report .
In the first three months of the year , the company also said that it expects sales of $ 220 million to $ 240 million , well below the $ 303.6 million expected by analysts surveyed by First Call .
Investors were n't too happy with the new outlook .
The 20 percent drop came despite the fact that Yahoo 's performance over the past three months turned out to be pretty much what investors had expected .
In the three-month period ending Dec. 31 , Yahoo said it earned $ 80.2 million , or 13 cents per diluted share , excluding certain one-time charges .
That was exactly in line with estimates from financial analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial .
The earnings did n't include a one-time charge of $ 163.2 million for equity investments in other firms and other items .
On the sales front , Yahoo reported fourth quarter revenue of $ 310.9 .
That was about $ 5 million short of expectations , but more or less on target .
Mostly , the projections for 2001 appeared to fuel the after-hours selling fever .
Some analysts who participated in the earnings conference questioned the rationale behind the scaled back earnings forecast .
Was Yahoo just being cautious , or was there real reason for fear ?
" We 're trying to figure out whether you 're just giving us worst-case scenario , " said David Readerman , an analyst at Thomas Weisel Partners .
He wondered why an increase in revenue from Fortune 500 companies would n't make up for the drop in dot-com spending .
Yahoo Chairman and CEO Tim Koogle hinted that the company opted to err on the side of caution .
" We 're trying to lay out a plan that 's very prudent , " he said . "
We try to lay out a plan and meet or exceed it every time . "
Koogle said he expects the effects of the tech stock market downturn to continue to affect Yahoo in the short term , However , he predicted ad spending will begin to accelerate in the second half of the year .
In the long run , Yahoo executives said they believed the dot-com downturn would actually strengthen their business .
To explain that logic , Decker fell back on the theory of evolution .
Back when markets were up and cash was easy to come by , she explained , even Internet companies with weak business models managed to survive for a while .
Now that the investment climate has grown considerably harsher , we 're seeing " an acceleration in economic Darwinism , " in which only the strongest companies will survive .




The Sound of One Hand Typing

If you use a Macintosh and spend a lot of time surfing the Net with one hand , the Matias Corporation may have the ideal product for you -- a one-handed keyboard .
At next week 's Macworld Expo in San Francisco , Matias will unveil the Mac version of its Half Keyboard .
Actually , the $ 99 Half Keyboard is intended for graphic artists , publishers , CAD designers and anyone else who constantly juggles a keyboard and an input device such as a graphics tablet or trackball .
After a little practice , the Half Keyboard is almost as efficient as a full keyboard for inputting text , and users can get a lot more work done if they are n't constantly shifting between input devices , the company claims .
" It makes you a lot more efficient if you are n't constantly alternating between the keyboard and the mouse or pen , " said Edgar Matias , the Half Keyboard 's inventor and president and CEO of Matias .
The Half Keyboard looks like the left half of a standard keyboard .
It has the same full-size keys and letter layout , but each key also doubles for its opposite right-hand key , which is activated when the space bar is held down .
Thus , the " G " key doubles for " H , " the " R " key for " U , " and so on .
It appears complicated , but Matias claims touch typists quickly learn to type with one hand instead of two .
The keyboard is based on the theory that the brain figures out which key to hit based on the finger used , rather than the spatial position of the key .
Because the right-hand keys are laid out in the mirror image of a standard keyboard , the same finger movements are made to type the appropriate keys .
So instead of hitting the " P " key with the right-hand little finger , it is hit with the left-hand little finger .
Matias invented the keyboard in the early 1990s as an undergraduate at the University of Toronto and tested it under the auspices of the school 's Input Research Group .
In a series of academic papers , Matias describes how -- after an hour of practice -- most touch-typists can get up to about 13 words a minute with 84 percent accuracy .
With 20 to 40 hours of practice , most typists are within 75 percent to 80 percent of their two-hand typing speeds .
Matias has spent the last four years bringing the one-hand keyboard to market .
His company sells a software version of the Half Keyboard for people who have lost the use of a hand through a repetitive stress injury or other disability .
It converts a standard keyboard into a one-handed one .




Seti : Is Anybody Out There ?

Seti@Home has clocked half-a-million years in computer time searching for ET on home PCs , but the real work is n't due to begin in earnest until January .
The Seti@Home project harnesses the spare computing cycles of millions of PCs across the globe to search for telltale signs of intelligent life in radio signals beamed from outer space .
Since its launch 18 months ago , 2.6 million people in 226 countries have downloaded Seti@Home's screensaver software , which scans radio data when their computers are n't otherwise in use .
The screensaver looks for strong signals among the white noise of the universe 's background radio transmissions .
But the process of figuring out which signals , if any , have come from alien civilizations will n't start operating at full swing until the end of January , when the project brings online all its back-end servers .
" We only recently started the back-end analysis , " said David Anderson , Seti@Home's director . "
We 've been doing bits and pieces here and there .
It will be turned on full blast next month . "
In the meantime , the Seti@Home project has become the largest computing problem ever undertaken .
It has clocked an astonishing 500,000 years in computing time , with another 1,000 years of processing time contributed every day .
Collectively , the 2.6 million Seti@Home machines are twice as powerful as the most powerful supercomputer on the planet , and a lot cheaper .
The U.S. Government 's ASCI White , housed at a California nuclear weapons research lab , is rated at 12 Teraflops and cost $ 110 million to build .
trillion operations a second
All day , every day , Seti@Home operates at around 25 Teraflops but cost only $ 500,000 , excluding the cost of the home PCs .
" It 's the biggest supercomputer on the planet by far , " said the project 's chief scientist , Dan Werthimer , an astronomer at the University of California at Berkeley 's Space Sciences Laboratory .
To date , the Seti@Home screensavers have identified 500 million strong radio signals from data gathered by the Arecibo radio telescope in Puerto Rico , the world 's largest radio telescope , which was built into a huge , bowl-shaped sink hole at the top of a mountain .
" In the screensaver , strong signals look like skyscrapers sticking up above the grass , " said Werthimer .
Using a variety of algorithms , the screensavers have whittled down the 500 million strong signals , or spikes , to about 125 million that look interesting .
All of these 125 million signals display a Gaussian , or bell curve , profile .
As the Aricebo telescope scans across the sky , the signal becomes progressively stronger and then weaker , just like a bell-shaped curve .
A signal displaying a Gaussian profile is less likely to be noise from terrestrial cell phones , airplanes or satellites , and probably originated from a single point in space -- maybe a planet orbiting a nearby star .
" That characteristic pattern gets us excited , " said Werthimer .
But to ensure the signal came from an alien civilization , it must be transmitted from the same part of the sky , at the same frequency , on two or more observations , which would indicate a persistent signal and not just a random burst of energy .
This " back-end " analysis was only recently begun , but already it has identified hundreds of signals that have been broadcast twice , three times , even four times , over an 18-month period .
A map on the project 's site shows the results : Red dots are signals picked up more twice .
Green dots are signals detected four or more times .




Microsoft Suite on OS X

SAN FRANCISCO -- Apple 's Mac OS X got a big boost on Wednesday when Microsoft said it will ship its Office productivity suite for the new operating system in the fall .
A working version of the productivity suite , which includes the Word , Excel , PowerPoint and Entourage applications , was demonstrated at a hotel near the Macworld conference .
" We 're trying to bring Office over to OS X , " said Kevin Browne , the head of Microsoft 's Macintosh software division . "
It 's going , but there 's a lot of code in 2001 to bring over . "
the current version of Office for Mac
Apple 's next-generation operating system , which is currently in beta testing , will be available at the end of March , Apple CEO Steve Job 's announced during a Macworld keynote speech on Tuesday .
AAPL
Microsoft 's Office is one of the most important applications for the Macintosh platform , ranking with Adobe 's Photoshop image editor , QuarkXpress publishing software and Macromedia 's Dreamweaver authoring tool .
But while other software companies have been quick to promise OS X versions of their software , Microsoft was dragging its feet .
Getting a version of the world 's best-selling office suite is one of the keys to OS X 's success .
Native versions of Photoshop , Quark Xpress and Dreamweaver will help persuade graphic designers and publishers to adopt Mac OS X , but without Office , many businesses would have little compelling reason to move to the new operating system .
Browne said the effort involves reworking 20 million lines of code .
The Office suite includes four complex applications , as well as dozens of optional components , add-ins and support libraries , he said .
Browne got a surprisingly friendly reception from the Mac crowd , which in the past has routinely booed Microsoft executives .
Browne said Microsoft started converting Office 2001 for OS X in October , but instead of doing a quick and dirty job , the company plans to rework the suite from the bottom up .
MSFT
" We see some awesome opportunities to bring great software to OS X , " Browne said . "
We 're working as hard as we can to deliver the best product we can as soon as we can . "
Browne said Microsoft programmers are delving into the software 's foundations to ensure it properly interacts with the underlying operating system .
The company is also rejigging the user interface , including redesigning more than 700 dialog boxes .
Browne showed the audience working versions of Word and Entourage , a personal information manager , which appeared to be fairly complete , although Word crashed just as Browne was warning the crowd that the software was still unstable .
Browne said the other two applications in the suite , PowerPoint and Excel , were n't as complete . "
Microsoft loves OS X , " he said .
Browne said he hopes to show a more complete version of Office for OS X at Macworld New York in July , which has been touted as the big coming out party for OS X software .
" It 'll knock your socks off , " Browne said .
Microsoft will offer Office for OS X for $ 149 , or about a 50 percent discount , to those who buy the current version .
Browne also announced a beta version of Outlook , which will allow Macs for the first time to connect to Microsoft 's Exchange Server , a group calendering and planning application .
The finished version is due this summer .
Throughout the presentation , Browne highlighted features of the software available first and only for the Mac platform .
Browne also repeatedly underlined Microsoft 's commitment to continue producing Macintosh software .
" This is a very strong business for Microsoft , " he said .




It 's a Mac , Mac , Mac , Macworld

SAN FRANCISCO -- Five thousands seats at a Macworld keynote speech go very , very quickly .
The cavernous hall at San Francisco 's Moscone Center , venue of Apple CEO Steve Jobs ' Macworld keynote speech on Tuesday morning , filled within minutes .
" It was like the famous Who concert in Cincinnati in 1979 when people got trampled , " said Hoke Greiner , a restaurant owner from Gaffney , South Carolina , who was caught in the mad crush to get in.
People had started lining up five hours before the doors opened at San Francisco 's Moscone Center , proving once again that Apple fervor is strong and alive despite recent problems of all kinds that have renewed questions about the company 's future .
At 4 a.m. , there were dozens of people huddled in the cold and dark trying to ensure good seats for Jobs ' speech .
By 6:30 a.m. , it was a full-fledged crowd .
" The line was around the corner and down the street three blocks , " said Michael Byrne , a network administrator who flew in from Cambridge , Massachusetts , for the conference . "
There must have been 500 to 700 people .
I looked down the street and all I could see was people . "
Steve Peterson , an IT manager from Richmond , Virginia , also started lining up at 6:30 a.m. , but did n't think he stood much chance of getting into the keynote hall .
Last year , he said he joined the line at 4:30 a.m. , but only managed to get into one of the large overflow rooms .
But this year , because of a mix-up with badges , hundreds of attendees who had pre-registered were standing in a separate , stationary line .
All were brandishing registration badges , but show management had neglected to include badge holders , which security was insisting were necessary before they let people into the hall .
Peterson , attending what he said was his 15th Macworld , expressed disgust .
" It 's never been like this , " he said .
" Never . "
" I paid $ 2,000 to be here and I pre-registered so I would n't have to go through this kind of thing , " said Genevieve Zetlan , a graphic designer from Washington , who was seething with anger . "
I feel misled . "
" It 's our first time and probably our last , " added John Navarrete , who was standing in line with Zetlan .
For those who did get in , they were treated to a classic Steve Jobs keynote , which mixes outrageous hyperbole with genuine innovation .
" We 've decided to start 2001 with a bang , " Jobs said in his introduction . "
We 've got a lot of incredible stuff to show here today . "
The incredible stuff included a new Titanium Powerbook -- " a supercomputer to go " ; four new Power Macs with faster chips and a built-in " SuperDrive " for writing CDs and DVDs ; and a pair of new , easy-to-use applications for managing digital music and authoring DVDs , called iTunes and iDVD , respectively .




< i>Crypto</i> : Three Decades in Review

WASHINGTON -- It took only a year or two for a pair of computer and math geeks to discover modern encryption technology in the 1970s .
But it 's taken three decades for the full story to be told .
Transforming what is an unavoidably nerdy tale into the stuff of passion and politics is not a trivial business , but Steven Levy , the author of Crypto , proves himself more than up to the task .
Crypto , is Levy 's compelling history of the personalities behind the development of data encryption , privacy and authentication : The mathematicians who thought up the idea , the businessmen who tried to sell it to an unsure public and the bureaucrats who tried to control it .
Viking Penguin , $ 25.95
Levy , a Newsweek writer and author of well-received technology histories such as Hackers and Insanely Great , begins his book in 1969 with a profile of Whit Diffie , the tortured , quirky co-discoverer of public key cryptography .
Other characters soon populate the stage : The MIT mathematicians eager to sign documents digitally ; Jim Bidzos , the Greek-born dealmaker who led RSA Data Security from ruin to success ; and Phil Zimmermann , the peace-activist-turned-programmer who gave the world Pretty Good Privacy .
Until their contributions , the United States and other countries suffered from a virtual crypto-embargo , under which the technology to perform secure communications was carefully regulated as a munition and used only by soldiers and spies .
But what about privacy and security ? "
On one side of the battle were relative nobodies : computer hackers , academics and wonky civil libertarians .
On the other were some of the most powerful people in the world : spies , generals and even presidents .
Guess who won , " Levy writes .
( Full disclosure : A few years ago , Levy asked this writer to help him research portions of the book .
For whatever reason -- perhaps he found what he needed elsewhere -- discussions ceased . )
Throughout Crypto 's 356 pages , Levy takes the perspective of the outsiders -- and , in some cases , rebels -- who popularized the technology .
Although he provides ample space for the U.S. government 's views , he casts the struggle between crypto-buffs and their federal adversaries in terms familiar to foes of government control .
" Those at the helm of the government focused not on the benefits , but the dangers -- the fear that terrorists , drug dealers and child pornographers would avail themselves of this digital shield , " Levy writes in a cover story in this week 's issue of Newsweek that is adapted from the book . "
Ultimately , the question boiled down to this : In an attempt to deny a malevolent few , were we all to be deprived of the tools of privacy ? "
Much of the story , of course , has been told before .
Anyone who 's paid attention to the technology press in the last decade , or even mediocre Hollywood efforts such as Mercury Rising and Sneakers , knows that the FBI and the National Security Agency do n't exactly adore an unregulated market of encryption products .
In 1993 , President Clinton and Vice President Gore inadvisedly committed the feds to a flawed Clipper Chip , and mostly Republican efforts in Congress subsequently rallied opposition to export limitations .
Six years later , the Clinton administration finally backed down to pressure from business groups and privacy advocates and dramatically relaxed -- but did not remove -- rules governing the overseas shipment of encryption .
That 's where Crypto ends , and it 's the weakest part of the book .
Perhaps it 's simply still too early to write a history of modern crypto-politics , since court cases over the FBI 's wiretapping demands and the last remnants of the export regulations are ongoing .
Besides , Levy seems more comfortable with tales of geek discovery and triumph than legislative infighting on Capitol Hill .
Fortunately , the personal stories of crypto 's popularizers represent the bulk of the book .
And not only has Levy assembled the first modern history of the topic , but some of his chapters include information that appears never to have been published before .
Other books , like David Kahn 's Codebreakers and James Bamford 's Puzzle Palace , have covered the pre-modern history of crypto .
For instance , Levy 's retelling of Diffie 's collaboration with Martin Hellman is based on Diffie 's notes and extensive interviews .
The inside story of how IBM worked with the NSA to develop the Data Encryption Standard is illuminating .
So is the epilogue , a version of which appeared in Wired magazine in 1999 , which explores how British mathematicians at the General Communication Headquarters seem to have secretly discovered public key encryption years before Diffie and Hellman .
That 's heady stuff , and anyone who wants to know more about privacy-protecting technology or the way governments have tried to stifle it will n't be disappointed by Crypto .
There 's even better news for privacy mavens living in three major cities .
Levy has scheduled tour dates that take him to New York City on Tuesday , Washington on Wednesday and San Francisco on Thursday .




Mac Lovers of the World , United

SAN FRANCISCO -- It 's blasphemy , really : walking into the Macworld Expo -- the last place in the world where Apple fans might expect to be harassed -- and asking them , " Can your favorite company be saved ? "
It 's like being admitted into the gates of heaven and asking the angels if they really believe in the Big Guy .
And yet , here at Macworld , the question seems particularly apt .
Outside the pearly gates of the Moscone Convention Center , where there are n't 50-foot-tall Think Different banners keeping the faith alive , there 's a kind of Mac malaise that Apple lovers have n't felt for at least a few years .
The stock price is down .
AAPL
The company is losing money .
The products , which seemed revolutionary just a few years ago , have appeared to languish , and they are n't selling very well .
Under these circumstances , with analysts predicting a gloomy future for the company , one wonders what the angels of Apple -- the designers and animators and publishers and other creative types who have kept the company alive all this time -- think will happen next .
Well , predictably , several Macheads said that they think things will get better , many pointing to the same thing as the cure for what ails Apple : the new G4 PowerBook .
" Apple 's doing it again , " said Ryan Roetelle , a Mac fan wandering around the Apple display at the center of the exhibition hall . "
Apple 's role in the industry is to kick it up a notch , like that guy Emeril -- and this laptop is cool .
It 's going to give everyone else a boot in the ass . "
But is it enough ?
Steven Peck , Roetelle 's pal , dismissed this question .
An employee of Sega , Peck is tattooed with video game characters from many different Sega products ; he seems to have what marketers like to call " brand affinity . "
" Apple does n't need to be saved , " Peck said . "
That 's like saying that Sega needs to be saved .
But Sega does n't need to be saved , and Apple does n't need to be saved . "
Peck and Roetelle both went on to say what Apple users always say when one suggests the company is doomed -- the hard-core users , they insisted , will n't stray .
Apple does n't need to be saved , in other words , because some people will always buy Macs .
Moreover , Peck said , " Everyone keeps copying Apple .
So that must mean that they 're doing a good job . "
But both Peck and Roetelle agreed that if anything was going to bring Apple more market shares , it would be products like the new PowerBook .
Like almost everyone else at Macworld , their reaction to the thing was visceral -- It 's so small , it 's so light , it looks so good . "
If you 're a road warrior , you 'll have to have one , " Roetelle said .
John Riley , a Mac fan who stood and ogled the new PowerBook as it rotated around a platform , agreed .
Stretching his hand out to touch its sleek titanium skin , he said , " You 've just got to touch it .
That 's what it 's here for . "
As the Mac turned , Riley pointed out its features ; he was so enamored of the laptop , one wondered whether he was on Apple 's payroll .




PS2 , I 'm Not Sure I Love You

Late last year , Kurt Squire took to the streets of Bloomington , Indiana , on a mission .
Squire , editor of the gaming news site Joystick101.org , wanted to get his hands on the same thing that hard-core gamers everywhere wanted -- the Sony Playstation 2 , which was being launched in the United States that cold morning .
Well , he did n't get a PS2 .
That night , Squire waited in line at several retail locations around his " sleepy college town , " but his efforts only amounted to a fantastic account of adolescents mashed against the gates of Kmart .
Three months later , Squire still does n't have a PS2 .
He can n't get one .
The stores still do n't have any , and most have stopped adding names to their waiting lists .
At this point , though , Squire really is n't dying to get one .
" It seems like kind of a minor disappointment , " he said . "
The thing is , the quality of the games has n't been all that revolutionary . "
Indeed , if there 's been anything at all revolutionary about the PS2 so far , it 's been a revolution of hype -- a huge marketing campaign that promised a near-magical gaming system .
But that promise , according to gamers , has so far gone unfulfilled .
Most people who want the system do n't have it , and they can n't get it unless they shell out big bucks for it , or wait until March , when Sony is scheduled to deliver a few million more units to stores .
But the PS2 is not worth the huge markups that some retailers are charging for it , Squire says . "
It looks like without a lot of hassle , it 'll be a few months till I can walk into a store and get one -- but I 'm holding off right now mainly to see the quality of the games that come out , " he said .
Billy Pidgeon , an analyst at Jupiter Research , said that he 's also heard that some people are n't all that pleased with the games . "
The software has been largely disappointing , probably because it 's expensive and very difficult to develop games for the PS2 . "
But Pidgeon said that games for a new system are always a bit ho-hum in the period immediately after launch . "
When you come out with a console , it takes time -- a lot of time -- for developers to learn the complexities of the system , " he said .




Pirates Beware : We 're Watching

If you can n't beat 'em , track 'em .
Content companies are slowly coming to realize that digital rights management solutions can n't stop the file-trading frenzy that has gripped the Internet .
So while continuing to work with encryption companies like Liquid Audio and Supertracks to come up with a solution that will protect their content , music and movie companies are doing what they can .
New monitoring applications allow them to attack piracy not at the user level , but by going directly to the service provider .
" There will be a long and ongoing need for these products , provided the manufacturers do n't take a particular attitude about what they filter , " said Frank Prince , senior analyst e-business infrastructures at Forrester Research . "
It 's a very big world out there , if you have a sufficiently homogenous community , you might find the community supports that . "
BayTSP operates by taking a sample of the digital media file and comparing it to a list of copyright-protected material .
If the application finds a " match , " it traces the file back to the server hosting the material .
An electronic takedown notice is then sent directly to the ISP and the owner of the server .
This automated takedown notice complies with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 , which requires content owners to contact users infringing on their works .
Those users are required to remove the infringing material from their websites .
Unfortunately for the music and movie companies , life ai n't that simple .
Any " Jabroni " with half a brain can circumvent it .
to use lingo coined by WWF wrestler The Rock
" We believe copyright trademark and Internet policing is going to be our model , " said Mark Ishikawa , CEO of BayTSP.com . "
DRM companies are trying to prevent the stealing of media .
Once you allow someone to download the file onto their computer , they own it .
DRM will keep the housewife away from stealing , but anyone with a moderate amount of knowledge can get around that . "
The system has three series of machines .
The first houses a database of media which has been provided by content companies .
The second brings content in from the Web .
The third samples the incoming media and compares it with the database .
Once a site has been found to have infringing materials , it receives a DMCA takedown notice and it gets flagged in the system .
But software programmer David Weekly said that if the sheer volume of files did n't crash the system , simple encryption technologies would render the system useless .
" The app has to be chewing through all of the data and trying to match it against known violations , " Weekly said in an instant message . "
It has to be able to parse the protocols involved and even a simple ' hide ' cipher would defeat it .
like invert all the bits
" If you flip every bit in the MP3 , then they would n't be able to recognize it .
just invert it
On the other end , just flip 'em back .
Piece of cake to do ; they 'd have to update their software to check for the flipped bits . "
While the system might sound difficult , Weekly said that public key cryptography applications like Napster and Gnutella could build the encryption into upgraded versions .
So users would have a seamless experience of file-trading , while the network tracking systems would n't know that infringing files had crossed the network .
Even if companies began upgrading their applications to keep up with encryption programs , Weekly said the server time required to sift through the data would be astronomical .




Microsoft Gets Some MacLove

SAN FRANCISCO -- At past Macworlds , Microsoft was as popular as a porcupine in a balloon factory .
Macintosh zealots would heckle and boo executives during talks , and screw with the machines at Microsoft 's booth .
Not anymore .
These days , Microsoft gets lots of warm fuzzies from the Mac crowd .
" People are really nice , " said one Microsoft booth worker . "
We had to plead with people to come and see our stuff .
But look at it now . "
Indeed , the booth was full of friendly curiosity seekers , eager to see Microsoft 's new Mac software , which includes Internet Explorer and Office 2001 .
But across the way in the Moscone Center 's other hall , Linux PPC was n't exactly fighting off the crowds .
At previous shows , it was almost impossible to fight through the dense pack of nerds surrounding the Linux distributor 's booth .
This year when Wired News visited , president Jeff Carr was sitting alone at the small booth in the Sci-Tech/Small Business section , tucked away at the back of the hall .
His three-foot penguin , the famous Linux mascot , had n't arrived , and neither had the booth 's biggest attraction , a stack of free installer CDs .
Nonetheless there was trickle of visitors . "
Wait till tomorrow , " Carr said with a laugh . "
There will be huge crowds surrounding the booth . "
That was n't Linux 's only problem here .
Carr and partner Jason Haas were planning their popular annual Macworld party at the nearby M&M bar , but discovered it 's closed for remodeling .
Carr and company are n't deterred .
They hope instead to attend the " Not the Mac the Knife " party on Thursday night .
The " Not the Mac the Knife Party " is the successor to the popular Mac the Knife party , which is named after the long-running Macweek rumor column and was for years the hottest ticket at Macworld .
But when Macweek killed the Mac the Knife column last year , they also killed the party .
Not to be denied the biannual bacchanal , Ilene Hoffman , a consultant and editor at Mac Fix It , took on the task of organizing the " Not the Mac the Knife Party . "
" The original Mac the Knife is going to be there , " said Hoffman with a sly wink , referring to the original writer of the column .
Over the years , the column was penned by a number of anonymous writers , whose identities were closely guarded and frequently speculated on .
Like the names of the writers , the location of the party remains a secret .




Geeks Drool Over Mac SuperDrive

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
The latest status symbol for the upscale cracker who likes to look stylish while " appropriating " data may be Apple 's new , top-of-the-line G4 .
That 's not to say that Apple set out to make a cracker 's dream machine .
The company intended to create an affordable start-to-finish video and audio authoring and recording system with the new " professional " G4 - &ndash; which comes with a SuperDrive capable of burning DVD and music CDs .
Independent filmmakers can use the product to make funky films , and families can videotape little Suzy 's birthday party and then easily transfer their home movie onto a DVD disk .
But those who believe that information &ndash; - and everything else they can possibly get their hands on &ndash; - should be free are already gleefully contemplating the ways they can corrupt the new graphite and white G4 .
" You can n't tell me that there was one gearhead listening to the keynote who did n't say , ' Whoa - &ndash; bet I can copy DVD movies with that SuperDrive , ' when Jobs announced the new G4 , " said " Kam , " who asked that his real name be withheld .
" Sure you can get a DVD burner and do your thing , but the G4s rock .
They just ooze cool , " added Kam . "
And OS X is a geek playground with its Unix underbase .
I can promise you the new G4 is going to be put to some interesting uses . "
" Hey , it 's all about ' Think Different , ' right ? "
Apple could not be reached for immediate comment about the cravings its new product has inspired in crackers , but the company has been very careful to point out in its publicity materials that " in compliance with the Motion Picture Association of America , DVD-R discs with CSS-encrypted video data can not be read . "
That means you can n't copy the contents of most commercial DVD disks .
CSS stands for " content scrambling system , " an encryption scheme that was meant to safeguard the sanctity of DVDs by ensuring that their data can be read only by a DVD player that has decryption keys .
CSS also protects DVDs from being copied and shared .
But Linux users discovered that the DVD drives in their machines were unable to play DVD discs due to the lack of CSS-enabled software support .
The solution was soon found : Someone simply cracked CSS encryption and posted the code for the crack , DeCSS , onto the Internet .
DeCSS also allowed users to extract DVD data from discs , so it was deemed to be A Very Bad Thing under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act , which fiercely frowns on people who tamper with copy-protection methods .
Legally , every trace of DeCSS was supposed to be purged from the Internet , but it 's not hard to find a stray copy or two lurking around .
So , when Steve Jobs announced the new Power Mac G4 with its spiffy DVD burning drive built right in , inquiring minds immediately wanted to know if they could use it to create a well-stocked home movie library with the help of rental DVDs and DeCSS .
The consensus appears to be " Sure , why not ? "
Most agree that Apple 's new SuperDrive will make copying music CDs as easy as setting up an iMac .
Copying DVDs is expected to take a bit more effort .
So the average Mac user probably is n't going to be putting the new G4 to dark-side uses .
DVD data can n't be simply dumped onto new disks .
One of the very first tracks on any commercial DVD disk is the " session key " that is used to decrypt the video .
A DVD player can communicate with the session key , but attempts to make a copy of the data will just net you a disc of scrambled data , explained MonKeBiz , a self-described " independent security assurance counselor . "
" And of course there 's no ' burn from image ' feature included in the DVD authoring software that comes with the new G4 , " said MonKeBiz . "
So Steve Jobs is n't in league with DVD pirates - &ndash; he 's not swilling rum and singing yo-ho-ho in some alley ... at least not to my knowledge . "
" But I say , where there 's a will there 's a way . "
Although several people contacted by Wired News said they were looking forward to , as one said , " morphing the morals of that pretty li'l machine , " they all admitted that ripping DVDs is n't really practical in the long run .
" Yeah , sure , you could grab the video off any DVD using DeCSS or the other applications that are out there , but it takes forever and it 'll take a lot of disks , " noted Kam .
" Home-burned DVDs have a lower capacity than commercially pressed ones , there 's only about 4.7 gigs of storage on the ones Apple is offering , which is about par for the course .
So some people may try it , just for the thrill , but once they 've done it they 'll get bored and move along . "
" You can put a sweet amount of data onto one of those rewritable DVD disks , " said Cru , an independent filmmaker , " but there 's not enough capacity to allow you to launch a cottage industry as a black market movie distribution center . "
Pirates who are looking to play with the G4 best have a lot of booty .
The machines are priced at $ 3,499 and the professional level DVD authoring software will set them back another $ 999 .
But an external SuperDrive is rumored to be on the way -- can a DVD-capable iMac be far behind ?
Whatever people do with the SuperDrive , it will n't backfire on Apple , said Harvey Shapiro , an attorney specializing in new media legislation .
" They have just given people a nice , new version of some technology that is already available .
They have n't included the tools that you 'd need to purloin music , or to decode DVDs .
So legally , they are , of course , absolutely in the clear , " Shapiro said .




Quantum Physics Meets the Qubit

AMSTERDAM -- Information , say the politicians and pundits , is the natural resource of the New Economy .
But hold that thought .
To what kind of information do we refer ?
Is it the abstract concept of " 0 " and " 1 " -- entities , like God himself , that never bow to the physical world but just are ?
Scientists are convening in Amsterdam this week to continue a quest begun two decades ago by Nobel laureate Richard Feynman , a quest to dispel this Platonic fantasy .
The Fourth Workshop on Quantum Information Processing will be drawing scores of information researchers from around the globe .
These scientists and mathematicians investigate the manifold ways everything -- from computing to cryptography to the nature of information itself -- changes when quantum mechanics , that 20th century camel , sticks its nose into the tent .
Information , or at least the only kind of information computers can work with , is innately physical .
It must be represented in some physical system -- say , the millions of on-off switches representing " 1 " and " 0 " in a computer chip .
And it must be manipulated and processed within that physical system -- say , through the logic gates of a computer 's microprocessor .
No sand and wires , no info .
The distinction may seem inconsequential , but then again so did the niggling that spawned Einstein 's Theory of Relativity .
minor discrepancies in the measured speed of light
Perhaps because of the extreme pace of miniaturization and sheer number-crunching might over the past several decades , an invincible mindset has emerged that sees information as exempt from the physical universe around it .
" These &#91;computers&#93 ; -- the most complex things produced by the human mind -- can be made indefinitely small because of a crucial distinction , " writes George Johnson in a Dec. 31 New York Times editorial . "
While ordinary machines work by manipulating stuff , computers manipulate information , symbols which are essentially weightless .
" A bit of information , a one or a zero , can be indicated by a pencil mark in a checkbox , by a microscopic spot on a magnetic disk or by the briefest pulse of electricity or scintilla of light .
" The special nature of information confers another advantage .
The power of computation can be leveraged and leveraged again .
Design a computer and then use it to help you design a better computer , ad infinitum . "
Well , sort of .
Charles Bennett of IBM 's Thomas J. Watson Research Center studies the fundamental , physical nature of information and information processing and says that the time is long overdue for a re-think not only of the computer but also of all the 0s and 1s that flow through its veins .
And we can start with those two little numbers .
" When this abstraction was successfully made -- in the 1930s to the '50s -- the people who did it had left out the principles of quantum mechanics , which have to do with distinguishability , " Bennett said .
The early computer innovators set up a framework that continues to this day .
They thought of the bit as theoretically identical to zeros and ones written on long strips of paper .
A zero can forever be zero ; it will only change to one if the computer or computer operator makes it so ; it can not be both zero and one at the same time ; everyone who wants to can see it ; and observing it does nothing to alter its " zeroness . "
An obviously productive idea , although it 's also one that has little relevance to the elemental laws of physics that our ever-smaller and faster computer chips now brush up against .
" von Neumann and Shannon , all those people thought of information as classical , even though they knew better , " Bennett said . "
John
Claude
They were aware of quantum mechanics .
And indeed , von Neumann had contributed fundamental things to quantum mechanics .
But they thought it was somehow irrelevant to information processing , like it would just make the information less reliable .
It would be a nuisance . "
So " quantum information processing " is , in a sense , where all computers will be headed when the IT size and speed scales improve by several more orders of magnitude .
It 's time we get used to it : as far as the laws of nature are concerned , zero and one are quaint abstractions .
What comes closer to mirroring the physical universe is not the bit -- robust , unambiguous and infinitely manipulatable -- but rather the quantumbit or " qubit . "
Start computing with individual atoms , molecules , photons or nuclei , and it quickly becomes evident how fragile , ephemeral and intricately entangled the fundamental units of information can be .
To be discussed at QIP 2001 includes the kinds of programs that can be run on a computer composed of qubits ; the kinds of ways qubits can be manipulated to do things no conventional computer can ; the kinds of quantum leaps in security and communication that qubits bring ; and the systems that need to be devised to make it all happen .
No small task , and one that will undoubtedly open more hidden doors and passageways than the ones that are already known .
But at the root of it all is the qubit itself .
" What I say to people who do n't like to think about many-dimensional spaces is that classical information is like the information in a book and quantum information is more like the information in a dream , " Bennett said .
" If you have a dream and somebody asks you about it , there 's a certain privacy to it .
Pretty soon , you 're remembering your explanations rather than what the dream originally was .
So in the course of making it public and making many copies of it , the original content of it is altered in an unpredictable way .
" Of course , dreams are terribly inexact .
But there 's an exact mathematics for handling this dreamlike information -- and it was known even in the '20s .
But ... it was n't thought of as something that had to do with the central notion of information .
And that 's what our insight over the last several years is .
That it should have been included in our central notion of information , and that we are just beginning to discover all that can flow from that . "




Coming Attraction : THX on PC

May the sounds be with you .
OK , so that 's not exactly the notion the Lucasfilm team wants to portray when they speak about their enhanced THX-certification systems that are changing the way people listen to their PCs .
Recently , the group along with Dell Computers created its first ever THX-certification standard for PCs .
The new Dell 8100 and 4100 series offer users multimedia speakers , Dolby Digital surround sound and integrated audio and video systems .
The systems start at $ 2,000 .
After working with Dell to create a multimedia speaker system , Laurie Fincham said his team quickly realized the implications of creating a strong audio component for the home computer .
" We realized that this type of innovation was aimed at people who wanted to play DVDs or CDs on the computer , " said Fincham , director of engineering at Lucasfilm . "
The overall system performance , though , was a function not just of the speakers , but of the computer configuration as a whole .
So we came up with a complete PC certification system . "
The Lucasfilm team set about creating a THX-certification system for computer networks that would allow high-quality audio to be played on a PC .
The new THX-certification process promises users a higher-quality viewing experience as they sit down in front of their computer .
Some of the specifications seem rather pedestrian , such as the 800-MHz CPU and 128 MB of RAM required by the system .
But the certification team set out to make sure that each part of the computer would seamlessly integrate together -- which turned out to be no easy task .
" Then we looked at graphics and sound cards , speaker systems , and how the whole system would then work together , " Fincham said . "
Finally , we came up with THX software which we wrote that simplifies the setup procedure for the customer .
But it still took a day or more for us to get digital sounds out of the system . "
Eventually , the team developed software that would walk consumers through the setup process in under 20 minutes , a length Fincham said was more than acceptable .
But for those watching DVDs or gaming online , audio is but a small part of the experience .
Since movies are designed for the big screen , the transfer to a small computer monitor gives them a bluish tint when watched .
The Lucasfilm team created a graphics card which compensates for that change .
" Bandwidth and uniformity levels was extremely important , " Fincham said . "
We just want to make sure if people crank it , they will n't be disappointed . "
But for gaming , there was an opportunity to create content directly for the PC .
So the Lucasfilm team launched its Professional Multichannel Mixing and Monitoring program 18 months ago .
The PM3 program has 30 studios mostly in the greater Los Angeles area , setting specifications for post-production work not only for movie soundtracks being transferred to DVDs , but also for gaming soundtracks .




Thinking Local About GM Foods

BRUSSELS , Belgium -- A campaign to create a network of areas in Europe free of genetically modified crops was launched in Brussels today at an international conference on the legal and technical issues behind the concept .
GM
Organized by the Green and European Free Alliance parties in the European Parliament , the conference was called to highlight frustration among proponents of GM-free zones that GM crops can not currently be banned at the local level even where there is public support for such a move .
" It should be up to regional and local authorities to decide whether they want to refuse the growing of GMO crops in their own territories -- higher bodies like national governments or the E.U. Commission should not have the power to overrule such a decision , " said Green Member of the European Parliament Paul Lannoye .
MEP
The European Commission is currently battling to lift a de facto European Union moratorium on new GM crop approvals .
The commission is opposing unilateral moves by some member states to ban crops already given the green light by European Union authorities .
Late last year the European Union 's scientific committee on plants backed its case against bans on approved GM maize varieties introduced in Austria and Germany .
corn
The disputes may have to be settled by the European Court of Justice .
Conference organizers called on European Union governments to create GM-free zones by using a clause in the newly revised " deliberate release " directive , which allows them to put conditions on marketing consents for genetically modified products .
According to a draft declaration circulated today , participating authorities would forbid all cultivation of genetically modified crops on their territory and the sale of GM derived foods in outlets under their control .
Signs would be erected to inform visitors of an area 's status , the draft says .
Politicians from Italy , the Basque country , Wales and Tasmania , Australia , told the conference of their experiences in creating GM-free areas .
Plaid Cymru MEP Jill Evans of Wales said it was a " mockery " that while the Welsh assembly had voted to ban all GM crop experimentation in the principality , European Union and national rules meant it could not prevent commercial cultivation .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .
Published in cooperation with ENDS Environment Daily .




IRC Attack Linked to DoS Threat

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Recent vicious cyberattacks on IRC services have now been linked to a National Infrastructure Protection Center security warning that advised systems administrators to protect their systems against a potential widespread distributed denial of service attack over New Year 's weekend .
According to court documents filed on Thursday by the FBI as well as sources involved in the investigation , the agency is now investigating a Lynwood , Washington teenager who is believed to have been part of a planned widescale attack " to take down the Internet " over the recent holiday weekend .
The teenager is also under investigation for attacking the servers of DALNet , an IRC service .
The teenager , whose name is being withheld due to his age , admits that he was involved in the creation of " Godswrath , " a program that allows users to launch distributed denial of service attacks .
But he is denying involvement in any attacks on DALNet , and said that the threats to hijack the Internet that appeared on the Godswrath website were " just blowing off steam . "
A spokesman for the FBI 's Los Angeles office , which is leading the investigation , said he could not comment on the case , but said an official statement will be released Friday or Saturday .
The agency is also investigating the possibility of involvement by other people , reportedly located in California , Michigan and Israel .
Meanwhile , many IRC services are still under attack .
Undernet appears to be the hardest hit , with its IRC service bots down and no projected date for their return .
When an IRC server is attacked , it also impacts the IRC Internet service provider 's ability to carry on normal day-to-day network operations .
The most recent attacks on Undernet have been so severe that some providers have terminated their agreements to host the IRC servers on the Undernet network .
But according the Undernet administrators , even this has not stopped the attacks .
Some of Undernet 's service providers continue to be the subject of extensive DoS attacks , even after disconnecting the IRC servers .
It appears , Undernet administrators said , that " the intent of the subject(s) orchestrating these DoS attacks is not only to destroy an IRC network , but also to adversely impact the business enterprise of individual ISP 's that have hosted Undernet IRC servers . "
" I am completely bewildered as to what these attacks are supposed to achieve , other than the destruction of a service that has been in place for nearly 10 years , " said Beth Healy , former administrator of the Undernet User Committee .
" The vast majority of Undernet volunteers , including IRC operators and administrators , are people who have real jobs and families and concerns and yet make the time to help maintain the network and continue to provide a totally free service to its users .
And yet people are taking this for granted , and that is the real shame here , " Healy added .
But some say that Undernet should share some of the blame for the attacks .
Bill Lavalette , who owns and operates the NdrsNet irc Network , said that Undernet resisted his attempts to aid them in securing their servers .
" We went to them two years ago and told them how to fix their network to help protect their users and provide a more stable form of chat .
They laughed at us , " Lavalette said . "
As it stands now , it is the most out-of-control IRC network on the Internet . "
" I feel sorry for the users of that network more so than the owners and admins .
Their lack of attention to the users and their network has made it easy for the script kiddies to attack them and as with anything the more publicity and proof of concept that it can be done the more it will be done .
Undernet for the most part as of now is under the control of the script kiddies , " Lavalette added .
Undernet administrators say there are numerous issues that will complicate a swift resolution to their current crisis .
Other IRC channels such as DALnet have publicly stated they have decided to work closely with the FBI and other international law enforcement agencies to get attackers arrested , rather then trying to solve the problem internally .
DALnet 's cooperation with law enforcement directly lead to the investigation of the Seattle-area teenager accused of launching Godswrath , along with the recent arrest of four hackers in Israel .
" Over the past year , DALnet has lost over a dozen servers due to attacks of this sort , " DALnet CEO David " Taz " Kopstain said .
" These attacks simply underscore the fact that people need to be continually vigilant about security issues ; everyone needs to spend the time and money necessary to secure machines , servers , and networks against being made unwitting participants in someone 's nefarious scheme of revenge or terrorism , DALnet founder Sven " Dalvenjah " Nielsen said .
" People need to realize that by not keeping their machines secure , they are costing the rest of the Internet community millions of dollars in time and lost revenue . "
The human cost is also significant .
IRC has many devoted users , who are saddened by the seemingly irrational attacks on the chat services .
" I 've been an IRC devotee for over 10 years and have never seen this level of attack , " a user named Rico wrote in an e-mail .
" It 's such a shame that the very technology that has fostered open communication and the only really true peer-to-peer sharing will most likely suffer an untimely death . "




Toysmart Settles : Database Killed

WASHINGTON -- In a case that could affect other fledgling dot-coms , a defunct online toy store will be paid $ 50,000 and have its customer database destroyed rather than being sold off to pay creditors , federal regulators said Tuesday .
Toysmart.com assured its customers that their personal information would never be shared with a third party , but the company took out an advertisement in The Wall Street Journal to sell the database after going out of business last May .
Internet privacy activists protested , claiming that if the sale of that information were allowed , it could encourage a wave of other failing dot-coms to abandon privacy assurances in return for cash .
" This is a landmark case because it tells other companies that the privacy promises you make while you 're in business must be kept when you go out of business , " said Dave Steer , spokesman for privacy seal-of-approval group TRUSTe , which was a party to the suit . "
If you do n't keep them , there are third parties that will stop you . "
The Federal Trade Commission and the attorneys general of 42 states , the District of Columbia , U.S. Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands sued Toysmart to keep it from divulging the data , which included names , addresses and credit-card numbers .
In the settlement , which is to be filed by Wednesday , a Walt Disney Internet subsidiary will pay Toysmart $ 50,000 , and the toy company will destroy its own records .
Toysmart is majority-owned by Disney .
" We 're very pleased with the resolution , and it does exactly what we wanted to be done with this information and protects consumers ' rights under the original privacy policy , " said FTC spokesman Eric London . "
It was worth fighting this out for as long as we did . "
Lawyers for Toysmart did not immediately return a call for comment Tuesday .
In late July , the FTC reached a settlement with Toysmart that allowed the company to sell its electronic assets only if the purchasing company abided by the same privacy policy .
But the federal bankruptcy court handling the case refused to accept the deal , instead waiting to see if there were any potential buyers .
No company came forward to buy the 250,000-customer database .
Many e-commerce companies lacking the large inventories and capital of brick-and-mortar firms are finding their customer databases to be one of their few assets and may be required to sell off those databases to pay debts under bankruptcy laws .
Sen. Patrick Leahy said in an interview that he would like to reform those laws this year to protect consumer privacy .
D-Vermont
" You 're sworn to sell whatever assets you have and give it to the creditors .
You 're caught between a rock and a hard place , " Leahy said . "
A lot of people assume these names will be protected because the company said it would be protected .
But when you see these dot-coms going out of business , you see how these bankruptcy laws are . "




Online News Frenzy Is Fizzling

It 's raining pink slips in the online media world , creating new doubts as to whether content is really king on the Internet .
On Monday , New York Times Digital laid off 69 workers -- 17 percent of its staff -- citing an unexpected drop in advertising revenue .
Four days earlier , News Corp announced that it was scaling back its Internet division , News Digital Media , eliminating nearly half of the 450 jobs at Foxnews.com , Foxsports.com , and Fox.com .
But the shakeout is n't limited to old media companies trying to wing it on the Web .
" New economy " publications such as Red Herring , The Industry Standard , Salon and Fast Company have also slimmed down in recent months .
Earlier this week , Standard Media International laid off 36 people from business functions within its online unit , TheStandard.com .
Industry watchers are saying that these cuts are just the first cuts in what they see as a large-scale retrenchment in online media .
The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday that CNN News Group will announce massive layoffs , eliminating between 500 and 1,000 positions at its Internet and TV operations as early as next week .
According to the paper , the reorganization is aimed at consolidating CNN 's news-gathering efforts across its network of TV and online channels , which includes CNN , CNNfn and a joint-venture with Sports Illustrated , CNNSI .
The layoffs could be seen as inevitable fallout from the imminent merger between CNN 's parent-company Time Warner and AOL .
But analysts say that it 's also the result of increasing competition from rivals Fox News and MSNBC .
Consolidation is a possible trend of the future .
Late last year rumors swirled about a possible merger between Business 2.0 and The Industry Standard .
Although both publications deny any such thing , the rumors underscore a feeling that consolidation within the industry will occur in the near future .
Media companies may decide to share the cost of producing content , Dan O'Brien , an analyst at Forrester Research , said .
Not only are experts questioning what role the media will play on the Internet in the future , but whether such an enterprise will ever be profitable on its own .
" Online content has moved out of the experiment stage .
Now it 's time to get back to business fundamentals , " said University of California , Berkeley journalism professor Paul Grabowicz .
Recognizing that , online media companies are slashing budgets and cutting staff .
Last year at this time , Internet-related media were bulging with dot-com advertising , challenging publishers to balance ad content with editorial content and leading many to bulk up their staffs .
But this year , with dot-coms slumping and ad sales dwindling , both old and new media companies are tightening their belts and looking for new sources of revenue .
In the early days of the Internet , old media titans rushed to establish an online presence as a defensive measure .
" There was this sense that an Amazon.com-type company would emerge in their space and steal all their business , so they poured money into their online operations out of fear , " Grabowicz said . "
Now that the dot-com threat has dissipated to a certain extent , I think they 're cutting back on their online investments . "




Israel Discusses the ' Inter-fada '

BEER SHEVA , Israel -- Cyberactivism or " hacktivism " may be Internet-based but its effects are certainly not virtual .
Rather than replacing the desire for real conflict , the activities of extremist groups on the Web creates wider communities of the like-minded than was previously possible .
These direct channels of communication and information distribution may actually result in increased action on the ground , speakers said at the " Battle of the Servers , Battle of the Hearts : New Media and Cyberwars " symposium at Ben Gurion University on Thursday .
" The Muslim world understood the importance very early , " said Limor Yagil , who lectures on terror and the Internet at several Israeli universities . "
of the Internet
They adopted a new strategy of online Jihad or e-Jihad .
They created an Islamic community on the Internet ...
unites a Muslim in Afghanistan , for example , with what is happening in Algeria and Israel . "
which
It is not just Islamic groups that have added an " e " to their activities .
" For good or for ill , new media breaks down boundaries , " said Bruce Williams of the Institute for Communications Research at the University of Illinois .
Williams ' focus is American extremist groups such as the White Aryan Resistance and the National Association for the Advancement of White People .
" The use of the Net allows the creation of a virtual world , " he said . " &#91 ; These groups&#93 ; can strategically blur and define boundaries between themselves and mainstream groups ... and blur and define boundaries between themselves and acts of political violence . "
What the Internet has n't altered , said Williams , is the " content of the actual discourse of these groups " , but it has allowed them to present a slick and professional online image , using multimedia tools and the immediate , far-reaching distribution mechanisms available to spread their message .
Both sides in the Israeli-Palestinian/Arab cyberwar are also making use of these distribution channels , said Mike Dahan , founder of the Middle East Virtual Community , which is attempting to create online dialogue rather than hostility .
MEViC
" They send PowerPoint presentations , flash animation .
...
The distribution is unreal .
It gets to tens of thousands because people forward it to others , " he said .
But it is not simply an attempt to disseminate " information . "
" It makes people want to take to the streets , whether it is in the Palestinian Authority , the U.S. or Europe .
...
The activities are not just staying on the Internet .
People go out and act , " Dahan said .
" Every time there is a new technological innovation , they say that it will wipe out war , " said professor Kenneth Preiss of Ben Gurion University .
However , that does n't appear to be true in this case .
As with the effects of violence from television and the movies , the violent impulse does not appear to be subdued by watching or reading about , rather than participating in , aggression .
Israeli-Palestinian/Arab hacktivism is an extremely active example of the cyberwar phenomenon that has attracted a lot of media attention since it began in October 2000 , on the heels of the escalation of violence on the ground .
" Despite three months of relentless cyber-attacks by pro-Israeli and pro-Palestinian attackers , the conflict shows no sign of abating .
New targets , new tools , tactics and actors continue to appear almost daily , " said a report by cyber threat monitoring body iDEFENSE Intelligence Services published on January 3 , 2001 .
" How did the story start ?
We &#91;the Israelis&#93 ; started it , " said Gilad Rabinovich , CEO of Netvision .
Netvision is a leading Israeli ISP which hosts many of the sites , including the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs site , which has been -- and remains -- under attack .
" It was so sexy -- let 's put an Israeli flag on the Hizbollah site .
And then they woke up , " Rabinovich said .
" It is the first Inter-fada , " Dahan said .
If sheer quantity is a measure of success , the Palestinian hacktivists seem to be winning the Inter-fada : They have hit over 166 websites since October , while the Israelis hacktivists have struck around 34 , according to the iDEFENSE report .
Victims have included commercial , governmental and personal websites .
And that does n't even include cyber-hostilities in chat rooms .
There were no Palestinian participants in the conference to present their views , although conference organizers said several had been invited .
A " virtual " Arab speaker who had been scheduled to participate over the telephone obviously changed his or her mind and did not attend , even virtually .
As with predictions for a cessation of violence on the ground , the outlook for the cyberwar is bleak : " The cyber conflict will intensify as political tensions in the region heighten , " says the report . "
Support for the cyber campaign will also grow among other high-profile Muslim groups , many of which have a strong presence on the Internet . "
" The sophistication of attacks is expected to increase as attackers on both sides have time to prepare and launch more intricate actions .
In the event that either side deploys viruses or Trojan horses , infections will not remain confined to their intended targets .
Such cyber assaults will likely spread to the Internet as a whole , infecting systems worldwide . "
Symposium organizers asked if the current situation is just a hint of things to come , what should be done to end the cyberwars ?
Knesset member Michael Eitan , who heads the parliament 's Internet and IT Committee , called for global treaties and legislation to punish countries that harbor cyber criminals .
" What is needed is international cooperation , the setting of acceptable norms and tools for combating terror , " he said . " a multinational force that operates based on agreements between countries .
There should be
Every country should have its own legislation . "
While some welcomed his call for involving governments and legislating bodies , there were those who felt that this was no solution .
" There are a lot of laws against bloodshed and theft , but whoever wants to murder will murder , and whoever wants to steal steals , " said professor Moti Sokolov of Tel Aviv University . "
It is much more complex on the Internet , and laws alone will n't help . "




' Ginger ' : Kamen 's Stirling Idea

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Combine an inventor with a track record for useful and unusual products , a somewhat slow news week , and the power of the Internet to connect a worldwide community of gossips &ndash; - and you get a feeding frenzy of fantastic speculation .
That 's what happened last week , when the news broke about inventor Dean Kamen 's book proposal outlining a plan for a revolutionary new Something code-named " Ginger " and " IT " .
Kamen refused to supply further details , so a torrent of theories and gossip began , claiming that Kamen had come up with something that would Change The World As We Know It .
once again
The speculation became so intense it led the now-harried inventor to release a statement on Friday warning people not to expect anything " earth shattering . "
In the calm that is following the storm of speculation , some down-to-earth details are starting to emerge .
Many reports point to the possibility that IT is simply a motorized scooter .
The scooter actually exists as a prototype , and some people have even scooted around on it .
But Ginger/IT is more likely to be a Stirling engine , or a scooter powered by an energy saving , environmentally friendly Stirling engine .
People who have visited Kamen 's Manchester , New Hampshire lab have seen the prototype of the six-wheeled scooter , which they said was code-named Ginger .
Kamen 's other person transportation device , a revolutionary wheelchair called the iBot , was code-named Fred - &ndash; a not-so-abstruse reference to Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers .
" Dean 's two-wheel balancing device is really cool , " said Dr. Wise Young , director of the W. M. Keck Center for Collaborative Neuroscience at Rutgers University . "
It zooms around like lightning just by standing on it and leaning forward or backwards .
The battery is the platform .
Using it is totally intuitive .
It will require reorganization of sidewalks because there will be people zooming all over cities with it . "
But will a scooter , no matter how cool it may be , really revolutionize the world ?
Kamen has a patent , issued last year , that outlines a design for a Stirling engine .
This alternative power source would fit better with the descriptions offered by people who claim to have seen the device , such as 3Com 's Bob Metcalfe , who described IT as " almost as big as cold fusion would have been . "
In 1816 , Scottish minister Robert Stirling obtained a patent for a device he called the " Economizer , " an engine powered by the expansion and compression of contained fuel .
Stirling engines are being studied at NASA for use in powering space vehicles with solar energy .
Prototypes also regularly show up at science fairs and high school lab classes , where they can be built using simple items like coffee cups or test tubes .
But a commercially viable Stirling engine would be a non-polluting , cheap power source that could completely change the dynamics of the dependency upon the Middle East 's oil producing regions and cause fuel prices to tumble .
It could , scientists say , launch a new world .
" Even if Kamen simply came up with a Stirling engine that was capable of powering a scooter , it would be a culture-changer , " said Kovacs Janos , a professor of mechanics at Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia in Budapest .
" But unless all the news reports have been severely overblown , it would have to be a device that more people would be willing and able to climb on .
I can n't see me balancing all 278 pounds of my middle-aged body on a scooter &ndash; - and I 'm thinking Kamen 's device has wider applications than a fun way to get to the store . "
But perhaps we 're all expecting too much .
Kamen released a statement saying he is disappointed with the leak of his book proposal , and now feels that expectations for IT have been raised too high .
" The leaked proposal quoted several prominent technology leaders out of context , without their doubts , risks and maybes included , " the statement said . "
This , together with spirited speculation about the unknown , has led to expectations that are beyond whimsical .
We have a promising project , but nothing of the earth-shattering nature that people are conjuring up .
" Please let me focus my public efforts on being an evangelist for FIRST , a cause which truly could have an earth-shattering impact . "
FIRST is a program Kamen sponsors that encourages young inventors .




Jobs Tells It Like It Is

SAN FRANCISCO -- At a big meeting of Apple 's resellers at the Macworld Expo this week , Apple 's CEO Steve Jobs unexpectedly dropped in.
According to those in attendance , the " great man " gave a short talk and then took questions from the floor for more than an hour .
The resellers -- a bunch of no-nonsense businessmen and not your typical artsy-fartsy Macintosh types -- were impressed by his candor .
Jobs gave frank and honest answers to tough questions in this time of trouble for the company and its partners , they said .
They were also impressed by his incredible potty mouth .
Every sentence he uttered -- every single one -- contained an expletive .
" I was surprised , " said one reseller , who asked not to be named . "
He was n't like he was during his keynotes . "
Here 's Jobs on the experience of buying a computer compared to buying a car : " At least you can go to an auto dealer and test drive a fucking car , " the dealers reported him as saying .
On Apple 's poor education sales this year : " We fucked up .
AAPL
We fucked up big time . "
And when told by dealers that Apple changed a policy of allowing resellers to reprint Apple 's ads in local papers , he said , " You 're fucking joking ? "
only 3 years ago
- - -
Titanium titillation : The new Titanium PowerBook is very small and sleek and has just about everything you 'd need to replace a desktop machine .
And when you look at it up close , you realize just how amazing the attention to detail is .
The catch arms on the machine 's lid do n't extend until just before you close it , a modification made to prevent pieces from breaking off .
As the lid is about to meet the keyboard , the catch swings out , attracted by a magnet .
At the Apple booth , a bunch of guys admiring one of the new PowerBooks on a revolving pedestal suddenly noticed this feature .
they 're always guys
They started dancing and clapping with glee .
The machine also has an intelligent Ethernet port that can tell if it is plugged into an Ethernet network or directly into another Mac , which ordinarily requires a special " cross-over " cable .
- - -
Happy daze : Thanks to innovations like these , the gloomy news about Apple 's sales , stock prices and the PC industry in general made absolutely no impression at all on the Macworld crowd .
People walked around the aisles as if they were on heavy doses of Prozac , oblivious to the dour profit warnings .
In fact , fans at this year 's Macworld were more optimistic than any in recent memory .
Many Macophiles expect to see an avalanche of amazing new technology in the coming year , especially fantastic new software .
And they expect to see things get better very quickly .
Movie magic : Andreas Pfeiffer , the technology oracle behind the Pfeiffer Report on Emerging Trends and Technologies , said he talked to some videographers who are positively ecstatic about the DVD capabilities of the new high-end Power Mac .




Gaming : Too Cool for School ?

Julia Child once pooh-poohed those who believe that a blowtorch does n't belong in the kitchen , as she eagerly fired up the flame and aimed it at a pot of creme brulee .
Like the renowned chef , Robert Nideffer , an assistant professor of studio art at the University of California at Irvine , is trying to bring a somewhat unconventional idea to a place where some feel it does not belong .
Nideffer has proposed that the school offer a minor in computer games and gaming , an initiative that has sparked heated debate .
" Computer games and gaming have been largely ignored by the academic community , " the proposal reads . "
A more comprehensive and theoretically informed approach to the artistic and technical production , dissemination and consumption of games and gaming needs to be taken if we wish to effectively engage the cultural institutions that inform our individual and collective identities , and engender new processes of communication and creativity . "
The proposal was already voted down once .
In December , a faculty committee rejected the proposal , with eight opposed , four in favor , and two abstaining , Nideffer said .
It will be re-submitted this year .
" As you can imagine , there 's still quite a bit of stigma associated with games and gaming , " Nideffer said . "
It gets into the whole ' high culture , low culture ' debate .
There is resistance . "
In a copy of a letter obtained by Wired News , Dean of the School of Social Sciences William Schonfeld expressed the following concerns :
" An academic program of study officially listed as focusing on gaming studies runs , I think , the strong risk of attracting people on the basis of prurient interest .
I do not think we should send forth messages of this type if we wish to be a research university of the highest level of distinction . "
When Schonfeld was contacted directly , he vehemently refused to comment on the proposal .
" Any discussion outside the university is inappropriate , " he said . "
It 's none of your business . "
Anne Friedberg , an associate professor of film studies and visual studies at UCI , is n't surprised such opposition exists .
" The academy has always been distrustful of the study of popular culture , " said Friedberg , a supporter of the initiative . "
It 's precisely why it is so important , because its cultural and aesthetic appeal is so pervasive . "
The interdisciplinary minor would bring together existing courses from the school of the arts , engineering , social sciences and humanities , and the department of information and computer science .
Students in the program will play games as part of their coursework .
But there is more to the proposal than just play time .
" Even though it sounds like a lot of fun , it 's also going to be extremely rigorous and demanding , " Nideffer said .




Who 's The Best Hacker of All ?

BOSTON -- Gentlemen , start your modems .
OpenHack III , a computer-hacking contest sponsored by eWeek magazine , will feature some stiff competition when it opens Monday .
In one corner is Savoy , Illinois ' Argus Systems Group , maker of a computer security product called PitBull that the company claims is virtually impenetrable .
In the other is an army of hackers who will try to break into a PitBull-protected system and win a $ 50,000 prize , supplied by Argus .
Hacking contests have been going on since the mid-1980s , but Argus has raised the stakes this time in an effort to validate a product it believes and many experts agree is the Fort Knox of computer security .
Hackers generally try to access computer operating systems by exploiting holes in the applications the systems run , and most security products try to plug those holes .
But PitBull protects the operating systems themselves , making it virtually impossible for a hacker to gain access .
In the contest , hackers will have two weeks to complete four tasks related to corrupting a website protected by PitBull .
There are prizes for being the first to complete each task , and a grand prize of $ 50,000 for being the first to complete all four .
Argus thought of giving a car away but realized from past hacking contests that participants are n't always old enough to drive .
In two previous eWeek contests involving other types of security , sites were successfully hacked .
In recent contests in Las Vegas and Munich , Germany , hackers failed to break into Argus-protected systems .
But hackers have always shown resilience in the face of attempts to defeat them .
Eric Lundquist , eWeek 's editor-in-chief , said no system is perfectly secure .
" I like that old rodeo saying : ' There 's never been a horse that can n't be rode , there 's never been a rider that can n't be throwed , ' " he said .
Most hacking competitions are lighthearted affairs , with hackers and security experts swapping tales and friendly advice .
But the contests have serious implications .
Big e-commerce companies like Yahoo and eBay have been hit by hackers , and some smaller companies are struggling to convince customers that their sites are safe places to make purchases .
Argus hopes the contest will prove the worth of its product .
But many in the computer security community think hacking competitions prove little because the cleverest , most dangerous hackers stay away or are reluctant to reveal their secrets a requirement to claim the prize .
" If you have the skills to break into a product that 's secure , are you going to announce it to the world , or are you going to keep those skills to yourself ? " said Jeff Moss , a hacker and security expert at Blackhat , a computer company based in Seattle .
Randy Sandone , the chief executive at Argus , acknowledges the test is imperfect .
" Even if we survive the two weeks without breaches , we 're not going to claim that our system is fundamentally impenetrable , " he said .
Nevertheless , the contest gives incentive to " some pretty serious people to give a good thrashing . "
the system




Lusting After a Landing on Eros

Take these ingredients :
A spinning rock about 21 miles in length and covered with small boulders and craters .
An automobile-sized craft that weighs 1,775 pounds .
No fuel .
A blindfold .
Johns Hopkins space jockeys .
A dash of adventure .
What do you have ?
Not the script to another bad space disaster movie , but an actual scientific endeavor that aims to land a vehicle on an asteroid .
" You got the picture .
We 're winging it , " said Dr. Robert Farquhar , NEAR Shoemaker mission director at Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel , Maryland .
NEAR stands for Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous .
Shoemaker is for the late Eugene " Super Gene " Shoemaker , a world-renowned geologist at the U.S. Geological Survey in Flagstaff , Arizona , and a close friend of Farquar .
The asteroid is named Asteroid 433 Eros , and the " rendezvous " originally meant to fly around the rock , take some pictures and then crash .
The mission was to last a year , then on Feb. 12 come to a rather abrupt end .
That mission has changed somewhat .
Now they 're actually trying to land the darn thing -- a challenge Farquhar says has about a 1 percent chance of success .
" It 'll end up on the surface one way or another , " Farquhar said . "
I like the description of landing on a moving aircraft carrier , if it 's spinning and the deck is coming up at you . "
Admittedly the landing is a piloting exercise for the John Hopkins University based team .
" This exercise in landing on small bodies like Eros is applicable .
I can see asteroids used as temporary quarters for traveling larger distances , " he said . "
We 'll slow the NEAR Shoemaker down and try the landing at about jogging speed . "
However , there is more to the landing than just derring-do .
" This is the first time we 've taken pictures this close of anything since the moon and a few small areas of Mars , " said Dr. Clark Chapman , a NEAR imaging team member and a geologist for the Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio , Texas .
The photos taken during the landing are expected to be 10 times better than those taken from orbit . "
We want to find out what it 's made of , " he said .
NEAR Shoemaker totes a range of scientific tools .
A magnetometer to check for magnetic materials like those found in meteorites .
An X-ray/Gamma-ray spectrometer for measuring silicon , magnesium , iron , uranium , thorium and potassium .
A near-infrared spectrometer to map the mineral composition of the surface by measuring the spectrum of sunlight reflected by the asteroid .
A multispectral camera and a laser rangefinder to measure the clog shoe-shaped EROS landforms and colors .
And the craft has performed experiments to evaluate the density of Eros .
" When we looked at the moon 's lunar surface we saw a few scattered boulders but mostly the moon was covered with small craters , but EROS is covered with small boulders and hills , he said .
" Asteroids are strange places from what little we know .
Eventually we will mine and take samples and deal with what they can tell us , " Dr. Chapman said . "
With this kind of imaging , it 's no different from taking a camera and going hiking , except we 're hiking into Wonderland .
We did n't know what to expect . "
The NEAR Shoemaker does n't have to land , but the activities of the space jockeys like Farquhar is all gravy , Chapman said .
The plans for landing were a surprise to many . "
I thought about doing this early on , but I did n't have the nerve to say anything , " Farquar said .
" He is mischievous and intriguing .
NASA is extremely risk-adverse ... and a bit straitlaced .
Farquhar is a breath of fresh air , " Chapman said .
Launched from Cape Canaveral Air Station in 1996 , NEAR 's arrival at Eros on Valentine 's Day of last year was no accident .
Eros is 1.3 astronomical units from the Sun , where Earth is 1 astronomical unit .
It is classified as a near-Earth asteroid , which means it travels within 121 million miles of the Sun .
Scientists theorize that these types of asteroids are from the main belt between Mars and Jupiter .
The NEAR Shoemaker adventure is not only about the adventurers who man our space programs , but about trying the impossible .
Farquhar , Chapman and the rest of the NEAR Shoemaker team engage in friendly competition with their NASA counterpart , the Jet Propulsion Laboratory .
But they all want the same thing .
Repeat after me : To boldly go ...




Big Four Back Down

Sixteen million dollars .
That 's the amount of money embattled Emusic.com expects to save this year after dumping 66 people , nearly 36 percent of its staff .
The company joins Listen.com -- two of the big four -- in the latest round of layoffs .
Only Napster and MP3.com have so far survived the extensive cutbacks , thanks in part to the major music labels .
But the story unfolding is n't necessarily one of doom and gloom , although the digital music sector is n't developing as everyone expected .
Both Emusic and Listen.com have enough money in the back to sustain themselves through next year , when they expect advertising revenues and sales to put them in the black .
With $ 16 million in the bank , EMusic is trying to bide its time while acquisition negotiations continue with two different companies , according to one analyst .
" We have taken today 's actions in order to withstand the combined effect of widespread illegal distribution of digital music and the significant market decline for Internet advertising , " stated Gene Hoffman , EMusic 's president and CEO in a written statement .
" In light of these challenges , we have reduced our expenses further with the objective of retaining sufficient cash to see us through to cash flow-positive operations . "
Listen.com reached a similar conclusion the week before , although the music directory company has a reported $ 60 million in the bank .
The two companies are trying to avoid the fate that befell Riffage.com , the online music label that did n't cut costs and barely missed securing the funding from major content companies that would have kept them in business .
So the power that tipped toward the technology industry , beginning in 1994 with the launch of the Internet Underground Music Archive , is now tipping back toward the music industry .
Napster has secured a deal with Bertelsmann that could leave the German media company owning up to 58 percent of the company -- maybe more if Napster burns through its entire $ 50 million loan .
MP3.com is reportedly being pursued by the giant as well .
Only Listen.com appears to be on its own these days .
Not exactly how the revolution was drawn up on the map .
---
Napster sell out:Let the buying begin .
That 's what the folks at Bertelsmann are hoping .
Napster community users can now purchase the music they downloaded from Napster by clicking on a link that takes them to CDNow .
The move comes as part of Napster 's continuing move to develop a service that the major music labels find an acceptable alternative to free file trading .
With record sales at an all-time high last year , the music industry continues to look for new ways to grow the sector without cannibalizing its CD sales .
By downloading the new beta version of the application , users have the ability to open a browser window that goes directly to CDNow.com .
This is the latest move from Napster to retain control of its company .
Bertelsmann gave the company $ 50 million to develop a secure version of its service in exchange for warrants giving it 58 percent of the company .
If Napster comes in under budget , the company could retain a majority stake .
---
No harm , no foul : Despite a rocky 2000 that saw the recording industry come under fire from the government for alleged price-fixing practices , bad marketing practices , and failure to move online , the two will come together to welcome George W. to office on January 18 .
PBS television show Austin City Limits will team up with the Recording Industry Association of America to put on a music show for the president-elect .
Other sponsors include Vivendi Universal , the Motion Picture Association of America , and Rock the Vote .




When in Rome , Travel Smart

ROME -- Italy ushered in a kinder , gentler era of public transportation last month with the introduction of smart-card technology to speed the fare collection process .
Thousands of smart cards have been issued to passengers in Rome and the surrounding Lazio regione since the program began on Dec. 28 .
Officials expect to have 350,000 cards in circulation by June and are hoping for 1 million users by the end of 2002 .
The card , developed jointly by Motorola and Australian technology company Erg , can be used on all of Rome 's 5,000 buses , its three light-rail lines and its 76 regional railway stations .
" With the introduction of the new system , we put the most advanced innovation at the disposal of the majority of Romans , " said Mario Di Carlo , president of the regional transit authority Atac .
And in the chaos that is Rome 's transit system , the need for simplicity is absolutely critical .
" I think that smart cards can really simplify public transport life in Rome , " said Francesca Lacroce , a student . "
Buses , trams and the subway are always so crowded , and you have to fight to stamp your ticket .
I think it is positive ... to have just one card to move in the city .
I hope the system will be working for every line and for everybody , and that we will n't need years to see this revolution . "
The Rome project is the largest of four contracts awarded to the Erg-Motorola alliance , which is also developing smart-card service for Berlin , San Francisco and Singapore .
The guts of the card is a microprocessor chip , which stores pertinent information , such as where and when the card was used .
Unlike most transit passes , which have to be replaced every month , a smart card is simply recharged by its owner at a sales outlet .
If the card is lost or stolen , it is easily replaced at one of Rome 's 19 help centers .
Probably the biggest benefit to passengers is ease of use .
The smart card only has to brush the machine in order to open the gate .
It 's no longer a case of feeding the card into a slot , right side up , while other passengers back up behind you .
Di Carlo says the card will eventually be available for non-transportation uses such as buying movie and museum tickets or paying a parking lot fee .
To support the card , the Roman system requires 9,700 validators , 4,000 sales outlets , 200 portable card readers , networked computers at depots and stations , a communications system , support services and maintenance .
The Erg-Motorola alliance , which continues to manage the project , holds everything together .
The companies will also be responsible for security , sales and data collection .
" The delivery schedule in Rome has been very short , and to implement such a large-scale system in 16 months is a great achievement , " said Peter Fogarty , Erg 's chief executive . "
We look forward to extending the system across other parts of Italy and in working with Atac to progressively extend and upgrade the public transport network in Rome and Lazio . "




Cache at the End of His Rainbow

Google 's search engine may be good for searches , but it 's useful in other ways , too .
Just ask Jake Savin , a San Francisco programmer who recently lost an entire website -- and three years ' hard work -- but found a copy of his entire site in Google 's online archive .
Savin had spent hundreds of hours working on his Weblog , a personal online journal documenting his life and interests .
Late last year , the hard drive on his laptop died .
No problem , because he had a backup on his server .
But two weeks later , his server 's drive also died .
He lost everything -- about 400 Web pages .
" It was upsetting , " he said with admirable understatement . "
I 'd put a lot of time and energy into it . "
But there was nothing he could do .
He chalked it up to experience .
Then late last week , Savin was searching for something on Google .
He followed a link to a page he was interested in , but got a " 404 error , " a common error message saying the requested Web page can n't be found .
Savin knew Google saved a copy of , or cached , all the Web pages in its index for just this kind of situation .
If a page someone is looking for is unavailable because a website is down or busy , it can instead be found in Google 's cache archive .
" That 's when the light bulb went off , " said Savin . "
I thought , wait a minute , they 've probably got my site . "
Although it had been six weeks since Savin lost his site , he found everything , all 400 pages , in Google 's cache .
" I 'm amazed they keep that much stuff around for that long , " Savin said . "
I was immediately elated but at the same time daunted by the amount of work it 's going to take to get it back into the database . "
Savin relocated everything except some pictures , which he intends to rescan .
" Google saved my ass ! " he wrote on his new Weblog .




Linux Plus Itanium Equals Whoosh

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Exploring big scientific mysteries requires big computing power .
Ed Seidel , researcher at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications and astrophysicist at the Max Planck Institute for Gravitational Physics , studies black holes and neutron stars in an attempt to understand the basic properties of space and time .
Seidel and the research team he works with use Linux and an open source program called Cactus they developed to aid them in their work .
And they are eagerly anticipating running those programs on one of the first supercomputers with Intel 's Itanium processor .
The National Center for Supercomputing Applications at University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana announced on Tuesday that NCSA will install two IBM Linux clusters at NCSA , creating the world 's fastest Linux supercomputer in academia , and the fourth fastest supercomputer overall in the world .
NCSA
NCSA 's new clusters will have 2 teraflops of computing power and will be used by researchers to study some of the most fundamental questions of science , such as the nature of gravitational waves first predicted by Albert Einstein in his Theory of Relativity .
The fastest computer in the world is IBM 's ASCI White , with a computational capability of 12.3 teraflops .
capable of 12 trillion calculations per second
The ASCI White covers an area the size of two basketball courts and is used by the U.S. Department of Energy program to help ensure the safety and reliability of the nation 's nuclear weapons stockpile without real-world testing .
NCSA 's new supercomputer takes 4th place on the ASCI list of the world 's fastest computers , replacing the IBM ASCI Blue-Pacific , which runs at 1.2 Teraflops .
" We believe that Linux clusters will soon be the most widely used architecture for parallel computing , and that these two clusters from IBM are the best way to deliver terascale performance , " said Dan Reed , director of NCSA and the National Computational Science Alliance .
In June , Seidel , astrophysicist Wai-Mo Suen of Washington University in St. Louis , and their international research teams were given access to NCSA 's 256-processor Origin2000 .
By the time Suen and Seidel had finished their simulations , they had output nearly a terabyte of data and logged an astonishing 140,000 CPU-hours on the Origin2000 .
That 's equivalent to more than 16 years on a single-processor machine .
Suen credited the success of the June runs to " more than a dozen of us on both sides of the Atlantic cutting our daily allowance of sleep to less than five hours for two weeks . "
The runs were monitored nonstop in both Germany and the United States .
Whoever first noticed a problem took the initiative to kill , correct and restart the job .
" The explosion of the open source community , the maturity of clustering software , and the enthusiasm of the scientific community all tell us that Linux clusters are the future of high-performance computing , " Seidel said .
" It was very exciting we are limited by how much time we can get on such large machines .
but
I hope very much that NCSA will be able to continue to make such extraordinary high-end resources available in order to make this kind of science more routine , " Seidel added .
Harnessing the firepower of 600 IBM eServer xSeries servers , the new NCSA machine will process 2 trillion calculations per second .
It would take one person with a calculator more than 1.5 million years to tabulate the number of calculations that the new NCSA machine will handle in a single second .




A Major Day for Tech Earnings

The technology earnings season kicked into high gear Tuesday , led by a slightly better-than-expected quarterly report from Intel .
The Santa Clara , Calif. company , which has seen its stock beaten down in recent months following warnings of slower sales , reported earnings per share that came in a penny ahead of Wall Street estimates .
The firm is the first large chipmaker to report earnings for the quarter .
Following on the heels of Intel came mobile device developer Handspring and networking gearmaker Juniper Networks , both of which reported quarterly earnings ahead of analyst forecasts and saw their shares rise in after-hours trading .
Intel profits top forecasts : Intel provided meager relief for a jittery market when it reported quarterly profits that came in slighly ahead of analyst projections .
Intel 's fourth-quarter results just beat already lowered expectations as the world 's largest chipmaker suffered from flagging personal computer sales and forecast first quarter sales would fall about 15 percent from the fourth-quarter level .
Intel , which warned on Dec. 7 that fourth-quarter sales would not meet expectations , said that it had earnings excluding acquisition-related costs of $ 2.63 billion , or 38 cents a share , vs. $ 2.39 billion , or 34 cents a share .
INTC
On that basis , the results beat the consensus analyst forecast of 37 cents a share , as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial .
Intel said its fourth-quarter sales rose 6 percent to $ 8.70 billion from $ 8.21 billion a year ago .
Investors hand it to Handspring : The mobile device maker reported quarterly earnings that came in ahead of analyst forecasts , and saw its shares get a boost in after-hours trading .
The Mountain View , Calif. company reported a net loss of $ 15.2 million , or 15 cents a share , in the three-month period ending Dec. 31 .
Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected the company to report a loss of 16 cents a share .
Revenue for the quarter came in at $ 115.6 million , an increase of 64 percent from the previous quarter and 600 percent from the same period last year .
Handspring attributed the rise in revenue to strong holiday season sales of its Visor line of handheld computers , expansion in Asia and growth in the number of U.S. retailers selling its products .
HAND
Following the release of the earnings report , shares of Handspring rose 4 percent to $ 46.50 in after-hours trading .
Juniper sales on the rise : Juniper Networks reported fourth-quarter earnings ahead of Wall Street forecasts as sales of its networking equipment jumped 47 percent from the previous quarter .
On Tuesday , the Sunnyvale , Calif. company reported pro forma earnings of $ 84.6 million , or 24 cents per share , compared with $ 3.1 million , or 2 cents per diluted share a year ago .
The numbers came in well ahead of forecasts from analysts , who had been predicting Juniper would report operating earnings of 18 cents per share , according to First Call/Thomson Financial .
JNPR
On a net basis , including amortization expenses , earnings were $ 62.2 million or 18 cents a share .
Shares of Juniper rose 2 percent to $ 130.38 in after-hours trading .




From Rejection to E-Lation

Whats right with Dorfman ?
The prestigious literary zine , January Magazine , recently chose What 's Wrong with Dorfman ? , by John Blumenthal , as one of the 50 best books of 2000 .
So , what 's so noteworthy about that ?
Well , it represents something of a milestone since the novel was self-published and only available for purchase online .
Blumenthal , whose credits include the screenplay Blue Streak and Ballantine Books Hollywood High : The History of America 's Most Famous Public School , kept the fact that Dorfman was self published secret because hed been warned the book would not get reviewed by the mainstream press if it was known .
Originally , Blumenthal and his agent hoped to get a traditional deal but the novel was rejected by over 30 publishers despite rave rejections .
" Hilarious , " said one New York house .
" Great characters , terrific plot .
Sorry , but we have to reject it , " said another .
It was the praise in these letters that convinced Blumenthal to proceed on his own .
Having had five books published by mainstream houses and knowing how much marketing issues play in deciding which books go to contract , Blumenthal chose to go it alone with his new novel .
" I figured I could n't possibly do worse than they do , " Blumenthal said . "
Publishing is an odd business -- Ive seen it first-hand .
Sometimes it almost seems like they are deliberately trying to not make money . "
Saying that he would not have self-published the book without the Net , Bluemthal praised the ease of selling via online bookstores and credited the people hes met in different listserves at Egroups.com in helping get out the word on Dorfman .
" People have been going out of their way to help this book be a success , " said Blumenthal , who has sold over 2000 copies in the past few months .
January 's editor , Linda Richards , was surprised to learn that Dorfman is self-published , but she was not astonished .
" Self-published should n't be either an accolade or a put-down .
It 's just what it is -- another book that has as much potential to transport you as books published in other ways , " Richards said . "
It 's the ideas that count . "
Richards recollects that she cried when she finished Losing Julia , was awed at the intricacy of The Blind Assassin and that What 's Wrong With Dorfman made her laugh out loud . "
Those are the things that are important to us at January , not the logo on the spine . "
Leonard writes but does n't e-read : Adding his name to the growing list of best-selling authors bypassing traditional publishers , Elmore Leonard will release Fire in the Hole as an e-book on Wednesday .
The 50-page novella will be published by Contentville and available at that site for $ 7 .
The book features U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens , the character who appeared in Leonards Pronto and its sequel , Riding the Rap .
" I do n't feel that writing an e-book is at all different than writing a story for publication , apart from the fact that I will n't be able to read it -- at least not in my home -- since I do n't own a computer , " Leonard said in a statement .
So who will read it ?
Katharine Weber , who teaches fiction writing at Yale University , is a fan of Leonard but wonders if $ 7 is n't too steep for 50 pages .
" I suppose I am one of those people who think of ' electronic text ' and ' free ' as synonyms , " said Weber , who wrote The Music Lesson .
Weber is n't alone , as the e-book continues to be a product in search of building a consumer base .
But the trend of authors bypassing publishers shows no sign of abating .
" In effect , name-brand authors are already their own publishers , " wrote Jason Epstein , formerly of Random House , in Book Business . "
While their nominal publishers are a vestigial , nonessential convenience , beneficiaries of inertia on the part of agents reluctant to forgo the security of a publisher 's guarantee . "
or victims
Plucked off the Net : It began as a self-published e-book , but this January , The Sharp Edge of Love , by Galen , will be released as an alternate selection of The Venus Book Club , a division of Book Span .
This is only the second time a major book club has plucked a self-published novel off the Net .
Without attempting to get a traditional deal first , Galen released the e-book in January 2000 and a print-on-demand version in July .
With the taboo nature of the erotic book , Galen believed he had a better chance launching it himself .
" I thought I would be in a stronger position to negotiate with a publisher after I could show them a sales track record and strong reviews , " he said .
Over the last few months , The Sharp Edge of Love has gotten serious online buzz and been reviewed by a number of influential critics and publications .
Nevertheless , Galen was flabbergasted when the Venus Book Club contacted him .
In addition to promoting the book on the back cover of the catalog , Venus is also running an author interview to go along with the listing . "
I felt validated that my point of view and writing talent met their standards , " Galen said .
Erika Tsang , editor at The Doubleday Book Club and The Venus Book Club , said she first became aware of the book from a review on noted sexpert Susie Bright 's website .
E-pubs in London : For two days preceding the prestigious London Book Fair , there will be an electronic publishing conference on March 22-23 .
Topics covered will range from e-publishing options for publishers to consumer e-publishing trends , understanding the e-tailer 's perspective , legal issues and fighting e-book piracy .
" The launch of ePubLondon adds an exciting dimension to the London Book Fair , " LBF Director Helen Shiers said . "
Aligned with such a major international publishing event , a forum of this kind provides an unrivaled opportunity for our customers to explore emerging business models and meet new publishing partners .
" By focusing on a case study approach with live demonstrations during breaks , the emphasis will be on real solutions and practical examples . "
M.J. Rose is the author of a new novel and a non-fiction book about e-publishing .




Calling Out for Quake Victims

SAN FRANCISCO -- As soon as she heard that El Salvador had been rocked by a 7.6-magnitude quake , Luisa Monge called the parish priest in La Libertad , a coastal town near the epicenter .
Monge , a labor union secretary in San Francisco , was desperate to communicate with her family , and she knew the priest had a cell phone .
" He is my only link , " said Monge , who learned her family was safe , but that their house had been destroyed along with 90 percent of the village . "
I 've been calling him every day for updates . "
Monge is one of thousands of Salvadoran immigrants who 've used cell phones and e-mail to contact loved ones after Saturday 's quake killed more than 600 people and left nearly 45,000 homeless .
Fixed-line phones are n't working in many parts of the country -- either because they were physically destroyed in the quake or because calls from anxious relatives have overloaded the system .
More modern communication methods have become lifelines .
One man who was trapped under the rubble has his cell phone to thank for saving his life , according to one media account .
The man was able to direct rescuers to his location using his mobile phone .
" It 's almost impossible to communicate by phone , " said Rhina M. Ramos , a grassroots coordinator for the SHARE Foundation , a nonprofit that is organizing relief efforts in San Francisco . "
fixed-line
The phone is down at our office there and our only communication has been by e-mail . "
Jos Santiago said that he consistently got a busy signal when he tried to call the government office in his hometown of Nueva San Salvador , a suburb of the capital city .
He was finally able to get a hold of the mayor 's cell phone number and ask him how things were going .
" He said the biggest problem they were having was putting the pieces of bodies back together so relatives could identify them , " Santiago , a social worker , said . "
He also said that they desperately needed money to buy clean water , food , tents , medicine and other provisions for the survivors . "




Cybersecurity Goes Cooperative

WASHINGTON -- Nineteen leading tech firms have created an information-sharing conglomerate aimed at countering the growing number of electronic attacks on U.S. companies .
The information technology sector on Tuesday became the third area of the economy to create its own " Information Sharing and Analysis Center " .
ISAC
This follows in the footsteps of similar centers for financial services and telecommunications that were created in the last few years .
The Information Technology Association of America will serve as the coordinator for the new body , whose founding members include AT&T , Cisco Systems , Hewlett Packard , IBM , and Intel .
ITAA
" These are the companies that make America work .
Without these companies , the economy would not work , " Richard Clark , national coordinator for infrastructure protection at the National Security Council , said at a Washington press conference .
The Clinton administration in May 1998 laid out its plans for critical infrastructure protection in Presidential Directive 63 .
" The IT-ISAC will enable the high-tech industry to take the lead in spotting potential threats to the Internet and information structures more quickly , sharing state-of-the-art Internet and information infrastructure security measures , and responding in a more coordinated way when incidents occur , " Commerce secretary Norman Mineta said .
Mineta designation as Transportation secretary-designate coincides with an ITAA statement that the transportation sector plans to meet in early February to discuss plans for their own ISAC .
The information-technology ISAC , which will be headquartered in Atlanta , was created to " report and exchange information among its industry members concerning electronic incidents , threats , attacks , vulnerabilities , solutions and countermeasures , best security practices and other protective measures , " according to a mission statement .
" Almost everything that we use today , from the water we drink to the power that we use , is carried by the networks of these companies here today in some way , " said Gregory Akers , vice president of IT for customer advocacy at Cisco .
The possibility of antitrust issues was dismissed by ISAC representatives , who said the organization was purely voluntary , openly encourages increased participation , and is doing nothing illegal .
Other members include Microsoft , IBM , and Oracle .
" We share common customers , but that 's not all we share , " said Mary Ann Davidson , director of security product management at Oracle . "
Every one of us here has or will be attacked via the Internet . "
The group 's creation comes on the heels of a new government-sponsored joint public-private sector critical infrastructure protection program called InfraGard , which aims at similar collaboration , but between government agencies and the private sector .
Members of the IT-ISAC say their organization is not the same thing .
" InfraGard and the National Infrastructure Protection Center address investigative , real-time enforcement issues , " said Ross Pinkus , vice president of business development and government relations at Computer Associates , an IT-ISAC member .
FBI 's
" We 're not an investigative body , we 're trying to share information among companies so as to help organizations like the NIPC and InfraGard do a better job , " Pinkus said .
The protocol for admitting foreign companies has yet to be decided by members of the IT-ISAC .
Because it is not a government organization , such protocol would be decided within the ISAC , said the NSC 's Clark .
He said that since companies and governments have been sharing information with one another for years , foreign corporations being admitted into the IT-ISAC " would hardly be breaking new ground anyway . "
The Bush Administration did not immediately return phone calls for comment , but " all the indications that we 've seen show that will continue to be a priority in the new administration , " said Howard Schmidt , Microsoft 's top security executive .
this info-sharing concept
" This is done regardless of party or corporate logo , " Schmidt said .




NBCi Joins Cutback Crowd

NBC Internet said on Thursday it will cut its workforce by 30 percent -- which translates into 150 jobs -- as a result of a revenue shortfall stemming from a softer advertising market .
The company , 39.2 percent owned by General Electric , cut its revenue forecast for 2001 to $ 100 million from an earlier projection of $ 150 million .
GE
It reiterated , however , that it expects to become profitable in the fourth quarter of 2001 or the first quarter of 2002 , before charges and NBC promotion .
" We are determined to reach profitability within the same time frame we reported at the end of the third quarter 2000 , " said NBC Internet Chief Executive Will Lansing . "
But to reach this goal , we needed to make difficult decisions on the operational side of our business to account for the challenges within the online advertising market . "
NBC Internet became the latest Internet media company to cut jobs because of the weakening advertising market .
News Corp. and New York Times have slashed jobs in their Internet units .
NWS
AOL Time Warner announced job cuts on Wednesday at the Internet units of its CNN properties , but said it was not due to the advertising market .
AOL
- - -
Rumor has it... : Apple has marked the current iMac line for termination after announcing $ 200 rebates on the two top models last week .
Electronics retailers said that the current iMac product codes had been removed from their inventory , a sign that kit has reached the end of its sales life .
Rumor also has it that faster iMacs , equipped with CD-RW drives , will be announced soon .
- - -
You 're no class act : Verizon Communications is being sued by customers frustrated when it took weeks or months to get their high-speed Internet access installed .
The class-action effort is an attempt to stop Verizon from signing new subscribers as well as to force the compensation of existing customers .
The complaint , filed this week in Superior Court for the District of Columbia , alleges that Verizon signs up over 3,000 new customers per day for high-speed service while knowing that the company can not support so many .
Verizon spokesman Larry Plum said Wednesday that the company had not seen the complaint and would not comment on it specifically , but that Verizon is working hard to satisfy customers .
VZ
- - -
Cisco sun may set on UK : Cisco Systems CEO John Chambers predicted that , if all goes according to plan , his company would hit an annual sales rate in China of $ 1.0 billion by the end of the year .
Cisco is aiming for 100 percent annual sales growth in China , which could vault China past Britain to become Cisco 's number two market in three years , he said .
CSCO
But , asked about the impact on Cisco of the U.S. economic slowdown , he said the firm would not go unscathed . "
When capital spending slows we are not immune to it , " he said . "
We will probably not be hit as tough as other organizations , but we absolutely will be affected by capital spending changes . "
Chambers was in India before China , and plans to head to Washington on Friday to attend the Saturday inauguration of President-elect George W. Bush .
- - -
WAP goes AOL : AOL Time Warner said it cut a deal with Nokia to provide an Internet browser for wireless devices .
Under the multiyear agreement , AOL Time Warner will develop and market a Netscape-branded version of the Finnish telecommunications equipment maker 's existing browser , known as WAP , for use across a variety of mobile communications devices .
" WAP is the most widely adopted wireless standard in the world among carriers and handset manufacturers and it makes sense for us to work to support that standard , " Dennis Patrick , president of AOL Wireless , said in a statement .
- - -
Portal profitable , almost : Rediff.com , the leading India-focused Internet portal , which on Wednesday reported income surged 31 percent last quarter , does not foresee a slowdown in advertising revenue .
In fact , the U.S. Nasdaq-listed company expects to turn profitable within the year , its chairman said .
Our cash burn in the last quarter was $ 1.5 million and we have $ 57 million in the bag , so that should see us through several years , " Balakrishnan said .
It 's pageviews for the quarter soared to 670 million , up 69 percent from the previous quarter , even as marketing expenses dropped 21.5 percent .
Balakrishnan said the Indian online market situation was radically different from the United States . "
In India , we are in a nascent market .
People are just getting into the Internet space , " he said .
Rediff , which collects 30 percent of its advertising revenue from dot-com companies , is seeing a rise in Internet advertising by brick and mortar companies , Balakrishnan said . "
People like Hindustan Lever and Coke are setting aside amounts for advertising on the Net for the first time , " he said .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Of Mice and Men
Gene Altered

CANBERRA , Australia -- Australian scientists developing a biological contraceptive to halt mouse and rat plagues have unearthed a deadly new gene with profound implications for biological warfare .
Researchers made the discovery at the Cooperative Research Centre for the Biological Control of Pest Animals Canberra .
CRC
CRC scientists are experimenting with viruses to deliver an antigen to animals such as rodents , rabbits and foxes , all considered pests by the agricultural industry .
An antigen provokes the formation of an antibody when introduced into another organism .
In this particular experiment , scientists modified a mousepox virus to include the gene for a substance called interleukin-4 , which affects the immune system .
The aim was to boost the level of the animal 's immune response to block reproduction , a process known as immuno-contraception .
Ultimately , the goal was to suppress the plagues of mice and rats , which spread human diseases and destroy billions of dollars worth of grain .
Mouse plagues occur in Australia 's grain growing regions on average every three years , causing massive disruption to communities and losses to farmers .
Mouse plagues are increasing in frequency due to changes in farming practices .
The country 's Grains Research and Development Corporation estimates that between 100,000 and 500,000 hectares of grain crops are affected each year .
A plague in South Australia and Victoria in 1993 is estimated to have cost at least A$55 million in grain losses .
US$ 30.5 million
Scientists found that by introducing the extra gene , they suppressed part of the mouse 's immune system that deals with viruses -- the cell-mediated response .
As a result , lab mice normally resistant to the virus died .
Furthermore , the gene diminished the efficacy of vaccines used to protect mice by about half .
Mousepox virus does not infect humans or pose any threat to them , but the scientists are concerned that in the wrong hands , the technique could be used to strengthen biological weapons based on viruses that do affect humans .
They are calling for the global Biological Weapons Convention to be strengthened as a result of the discovery .
Formally known as the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention , the agreement prohibits the development , production and stockpiling of biological and toxin weapons .
It entered into force in 1975 and has been signed by 162 countries .
" The concern is not so much about the modified mousepox virus , but about the implications of this research , said Dr. Annabelle Duncan , of the Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research Organization .
CSIRO
Duncan is chief of CSIRO Molecular Science and former deputy head of a United Nations team that investigated the development of biowarfare agents in Iraq following the Gulf War .
" Could a similar experiment be conducted on a human disease-causing organism with similar results ?
If so , could this be exploited by an unscrupulous nation or a bioterrorist to develop biological weapons ?
" The answer to the first question is that we simply do not know .
There is no way of extrapolating from these results to another virus and another host animal .
All we can say is that it is theoretically possible .
" The important thing is to ensure they are used for good -- not for destructive purposes .
That is why we urge awareness and vigilance . "
CRC director Dr Bob Seamark stressed the experiments were undertaken with " completely humanitarian motives . "
" Our aim is to counter the enormous damage and human suffering which rodents cause by devouring a major part of the global grain harvest , especially in developing countries and in Australia , " said Seamark .
" In the course of science you sometimes make unexpected discoveries -- penicillin is one example .
" In this case , we 've found that certain changes to a mouse virus can render it more lethal and harder to immunize against .
" The best protection against any misuse of this technique was to issue a worldwide warning .
We also want researchers to use this new knowledge to help design better vaccines . "
A report on the discovery will be published in the Journal of Virology 's February issue .
For full text and graphics , visit : ENS .




And God Said : Let There Be Net

For thine is the kingdom , the power , and the glory of the Internet forever , Amen .
In the fast-paced digital age , some believers believe a basic church Web page is no longer enough .
That 's why the Fellowship Church in Grapevine , Texas , is changing its name to fellowshipchurch.com .
The church , one of the largest in the country , will launch a new website in February to mark the transition .
" We need to market the life-changing message of Jesus Christ to the world , " said Preston Mitchell , pastor of spiritual development for fellowshipchurch.com . "
God created the Internet -- he is the one who gave us the ability as human beings to do that .
We have a responsibility to use what God 's created to reach people . "
Not surprisingly , the site has raised the eyebrows of several pastors around the country .
When the site is unveiled on Feb. 15 , visitors will see " something along the lines of MSN or Yahoo , " including sports scores , stock quotes , weather , maps -- in addition to daily Bible devotionals and church news , Mitchell said .
There will also be an e-commerce portion to the website , where users can purchase religious books , transcripts of sermons , or pay the requisite fee to play on the church volleyball team .
" Anywhere the name is printed we 're going to add .com to the name , " Mitchell said , including the roof of the church .
Mitchell , who is one of six pastors on the church 's " management team , " explained that the church 's name is displayed on the roof because they are located in the flight pattern of the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport .
The 10-year-old contemporary Christian church is a member of the Southern Baptist Convention .
In its 10-year life , fellowshipchurch.com has grown from 150 to 13,000 regular attendees .
The church holds three services on the weekends , one on Saturday and two on Sunday .
News of the dot-com church did not shock one pastor .
" Number one : This was bound to happen .
Number two : This was bound to happen in Dallas , " said Bill Leonard , dean of Wake Forest University Divinity School , professor of church history and a native Texan himself . "
I would have bet half the ranch on that . "
" Dallas is a kind of case-study in religious communities that are constantly forming and re-forming in response to religious and cultural influences , " he said .
Megachurches , which sprout up and boast thousands of members , are well known for using blatant marketing techniques to attract the unchurched , he said .
" The method always impacts the message in spite of what the faithful may believe , " Leonard said .
" I see dangers in that , " he added .
For example , the local community and church traditions can become less relevant with the technology .
Another pastor , who preferred to remain anonymous , wondered if the church was focusing more on increasing its membership numbers than on the personal needs of its congregation .
" I hate the use of business terminology in the church because I think it sends the wrong message , " he said . "
Too often , using business terms people not as persons but as numbers or entities . "
refers to




Infamous Spammer Spammed

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
In what some see as a perfect example of the evidence of cosmic retribution , an avalanche of spam has crashed British Internet service provider Pipex 's servers , and stopped delivery of e-mail to its million-plus users for the past week .
Pipex is owned by UUNET , and according to statistics compiled by spam fighting and tracking sites SpamCop and SpamHaus , more spam gets spewed through UUNET than from all the other Internet service providers combined .
A spokesperson for Pipex confirmed that a bulk mailing of 2 million pieces of spam sent through its servers by a Canadian firm last Wednesday caused the failure of its own e-mail service .
Pipex spokesman Richard Woods also told British newspapers that the spam strike might have been a deliberate attack by " hackers . "
But some spam fighters dispute that and believe that Pipex 's problems are simply a practical demonstration of the dangers of spam , and an ironic bit of payback .
" Chickens always come home to roost , " said Julian Haight , of SpamCop .
The system-stalling spam that crippled eight Pipex e-mail servers has to be manually removed before normal operations can continue , a company spokesman said .
The problem is expected to keep its customers ' e-mail tied up until Friday .
In a statement released on Tuesday , UUNET said , " The Unsolicited Commercial E-mail wrecked havoc upon Pipex mail queuing systems and is only allowing small amounts to reach customers ' mailboxes .
UCE
" UUNET regrets the inconvenience and advises customers who are aware of urgent incoming mail that has not arrived to contact the sender and make alternative arrangements . "
Richard Woods , UUNET 's public affairs spokesman , told reporters from British newspapers The Telegraph and The Times that he believed the spam flood was the work of hackers .
Woods also acknowledged that there was a chance that the spam had been sent by accident -- " Someone may have been a little over-enthusiastic with their direct mailing , " he said -- but added he believed anyone who could send that many e-mails at once would possess " pretty sophisticated hacking skills , " a statement that angered some spam fighters .
" That is complete nonsense ... this was a spammer , not a hacker , and no skills of any sort are needed to operate spamware , " said Steve Linford of the SpamHaus , a British spam-fighting project .
Spamware is bulk e-mail software whose principal purpose is to send unsolicited bulk e-mail .
The applications attempt to hide the true identity of the spam 's sender , falsify e-mail header information , disguise URLs to obstruct identification of a website advertised in the spam , and/or attempt to circumvent ISP spam filters .
origin
" You can right now buy exactly the same spamware packages that would have been used to send the spam that brought down Pipex , complete with spamming instructions , from any number of UUNET-hosted spamware sites such as abulkemailsource.com , " Linford said .
UUNET now delivers 30 billion pieces of spam each year to e-mail users around the world , according to statistics gathered by SpamHaus .
But Steve Atkins of Sam Spade , a spam tracking tool , cautioned that not all of UUNET 's divisions are spam friendly , and said that much of the spam that ends up in inboxes is actually sent through the downstream providers that rent dialup access from UUNET .
A UUNET spokesperson reaffirmed UUNET 's spam policy prohibiting users to send unsolicited , commercial bulk e-mail , and said that UUNET has 42 full-time staffers who keep the service 's customers in compliance with the policy .
She also pointed out that UUNET carries some of the traffic for AOL , Microsoft Network , and Earthlink , among other large ISPs , and said that much of the spam that slithers through its servers actually originates " from our customers ' customers . "
Spam fighters still hope that the situation will encourage UUNET to tighten its spam-fighting policies even further , although some do n't see the spam-flood as a justified karmic payback .
" Pipex ' mail servers were heavily loaded , and they were in the process of upgrading them .
They were just unlucky that this massive spam run hit them before they got the new servers online , " Atkins said .
Others were n't quite as charitable .
" I would say that most of the Internet community has no sympathy for UUNET servers crashing under the weight of spam , " Linwood said , " because every day , UUNET 's spammers pump far more than 2 million spam e-mails onto the Internet . "




Apple : Slump Only Temporary

Apple Computer reported the results of its first money-losing quarter in three years Wednesday , but reassured investors that the prospects look better for 2001 .
In an earnings report delivered after the close of the trading day Wednesday , the Silicon Valley technology icon reported a quarterly net loss of $ 195 million , or 58 cents per share .
Not including gains from investments , the loss was $ 247 million , or 73 cents a share .
The results were far worse than the same period last year , when the company reported a profit of $ 183 million .
Apple executives painted the poor quarterly performance as an isolated occurrence .
AAPL
" We are targeting a return to sustained profitability , " said Fred Anderson , Apple 's chief financial officer , in a conference call with investors .
Anderson predicted the company would report a profit in the next quarter , and would see its earnings increase over the following two quarters .
All told , Anderson predicted that Apple would log $ 6 billion in sales in the 2001 fiscal year , which ends September 30 .
He pegged his high hopes on a number of products introduced at last week 's MacWorld expo in San Francisco and the upcoming release of its much-awaited next-generation operating system .
Last week , Apple unveiled a new line of speedier Power Macs , an upgraded Powerbook , and new applications for managing digital music and authoring DVDs .
The company also set a March 24 release date for its forthcoming operating system Mac OS X. and said it will pre-install the system on computers starting in July .
In a statement accompanying the earnings release , Apple CEO Steve Jobs gave the company kudos for reducing its backlog of current products .
" We took our medicine last quarter and brought our channel inventories back down to about five and a half weeks , " Jobs said .
In the course of the quarter , the company had as much of 11 weeks of inventory .
Apple had warned investors in December that sales for the quarter would be disappointing , and it was right .
In the last three months of the year , Apple 's sales dropped to $ 1.01 billion , down from from last year 's $ 2.34 billion .
The results were slightly better than Apple 's revised December forecast of about $ 1 billion in sales .
Over the quarter , Apple said it shipped 659 thousand Macintosh units .
The company said that international sales accounted for 49 percent of its revenue over that period .
In a move to speed up sales , the company recently started offering bigger rebates on many of its products , including its iMac computers .
Apple also recently cut the price of its stylish but slow-selling Cube .




The Snail Mail That 'll Kill You

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Attachments that arrive by snail mail may be even more dangerous than the virus-laden ones that occasionally show up in your e-mail box .
Computer viruses will just trash your hard drive , but the snail-mailed variety can maim or kill humans , according to an e-mail that 's once again making its way around the Internet .
And there 's no anti-virus program for people yet .
Happily , the news about this mailbox menace is spreading fast via an e-mail that details the " Klingerman Virus , " and claims that 23 people have already been sadistically attacked by sponges that have arrived in their mailboxes .
The killer sponges come in blue envelopes that are printed with bold black letters cheerfully proclaiming that " A Gift for You From the Klingerman Foundation " lurks inside .
But when the envelope is opened and the sponge is handled , a virus that causes " sever dysentery " that is impregnated into the sponge leaps out , gets onto your hands and commences to try to kill you .
The e-mail offers helpful suggestions to those who are confronted by Klingerman .
The e-mail says that anyone who receives this bummer-in-a-blue-envelope should " place it in a strong plastic bag or container and call the police immediately . "
And that 's exactly what Geraldine Emanuel of Palm Beach County did .
According to an AP report from May 23 , 2000 , Emanuel received one of those e-mails warning that Klingerman could be coming to a mailbox near her .
So when she received a pale blue envelope in the mail with the words " restricted access " printed on it , she decided not to take any chances .
She carefully placed the junk mail in a plastic grocery bag and called 911 .
Soon after , Palm Beach County Sheriff 's deputies , a bomb squad , a hazardous materials team and a postal inspector converged at Emanuel 's home .
But as the bomb squad prepared to X-ray Emanuel 's envelope , a neighbor scampered over and said that she had received a similar letter , opened it and found ads for magazines inside , which put a definite damper on all the excitement .
Yes , the Klingerman Virus is just another one of those festive " you must forward me to everyone you know " e-mails that are meant to scare many and amuse some .
It takes its proud place among other illustrious e-mail urban legends such as the frantic reports of " Flesh-Eating Bananas " and that bizarre vending machine death cult in western Canada that was booby-trapping the coin slots of Coke machines with HIV-tainted needles ( a word to the wise from that e-mail : " taking a peek into any compartment of any public machine -- pay-phone , pop machine , vending machine -- before sticking your hand in there could save your life !
!
!
!
!
Tell everyone you know ! " ) .
And while you 're peering into the darkness in , under and around public spaces , do n't forget to check for the deadly spiders that lurk under the toilet seats on planes eagerly waiting to bite unwary bottoms .
The unfriendly sky spider hoax so incensed the arachnid-adoring entomologists at the University of California , Riverside , that they put up a Web page just to dispute this " sack of whooey . "




More Job Cuts at AltaVista

Star-crossed search engine company AltaVista is launching a new round of layoffs .
The Palo Alto , California company said Thursday it would cut 200 jobs from its payroll -- close to 25 percent of its staff .
Executives said the job cuts were necessary to reduce expenses as ad revenue declines .
" AltaVista has not been immune to the softness in advertising , " said Peter Mills , executive adviser to AltaVista and managing partner of CMGI @Ventures .
Despite the cutbacks , Mills said the company would continue to focus on expanding its growing search software business .
For AltaVista , which has long ranked as one of the Internet 's most visited sites , the move marks the latest in a string of setbacks .
Thursday 's announcement marked the third time in the last year that the company has reduced its staff in a move to cut expenses .
The company laid off about one-fourth of its staff in September , following a round of cuts the previous spring .
Earlier this month , the company scrapped plans for an initial stock offering originally intended to raise as much as $ 280 million .
AltaVista first filed to go public in December 1999 , but the dot-com stock market downturn of early 2000 put a wrench in its plans .
As investors began to shy away from Internet stocks , AltaVista put its plans for a stock offering on hold .
The company withdrew the offering entirely on Jan. 4 , citing unfavorable market conditions .
AltaVista spokesman David Emanuel described that IPO withdrawal as " largely symbolic . "
It had become clear from the scores of other dot-com companies withdrawing IPO plans late last year that the investment climate was no longer welcoming .
AltaVista 's recent troubles are centered more around money than any difficulties sustaining its popularity among Internet users .
The site got 19 million unique visitors and ranked No. 11 in the list of most-visited Internet destinations in December , according to Web measurement firm Media Metrix .
Favorite offerings among users include AltaVista 's main search function , financial discussion site Raging Bull , and a multimedia search that scours the Web for audio and video material .
Babelfish , the company 's free translation service , has also proved a hit .
The site processes over 1 million translations a day and is , according to AltaVista , the most popular free service of its kind .
Popularity with users , however , has n't translated into popularity with investors .
Because AltaVista is a private company it does n't disclose its quarterly financial performance .
An April IPO filing , however , details performance up to the beginning of last year , when AltaVista was still a long way from profitability .
According to securities filings , AltaVista had an accumulated deficit of $ 765 million as of February 2000 .
The company said it expected to incur additional losses " for the foreseeable future . "
Since then , it 's unclear what impact AltaVista has felt as a result of the downturn in dot-com ad spending .
Like other portal sites , the company depends on advertising for most of its revenue , and makes some money through online commerce .
AltaVista 's ambitions were n't helped by the performance of its parent , Internet holding company CMGI , which owns 82 percent of the portal site .
Compaq computer , whom CMGI bought AltaVista from in 1999 , owns the rest .
CMGI had been a star performer among Internet stocks in 1999 and early 2000 .
CMGI
At its high point in early 2000 , the company had a share price of more than $ 150 and a stock market worth more than $ 45 billion .
But the holding firm , which owns or has stakes in more than 60 Internet firms , took a beating when dot-com stocks declined .
Today , CMGI stock trades for less than $ 8 a share .
To help stem its losses , CMGI approved cutbacks and closures at several money-losing Internet properties over the last few months .
In November , CMGI announced it would close down 1stUp.com , its free ISP .
The company blamed the venture 's demise on a weak market for online advertising and the high costs of maintaining the business .
The same month , CMGI shut down entertainment site iCast in a similar cost-cutting move .
The troubles have extended to publicly traded companies backed by CMGI .
In early January , Engage Inc. , an Internet advertising software and services firm majority-owned by the holding firm , said it was laying off 550 employees in a move to cut expenses .
ENGA
The job cuts came as revenues for Internet advertising firms are declining , at least temporarily , as dot-com companies that once bought adds are now finding themselves short of cash .
In recent months , CMGI has taken a larger public role in the direction of AltaVista .
The company 's former CEO , Compaq veteran Rod Schrock , left in October , about a month after a September round of layoffs that reduced AltaVista 's staff by 25 percent .




A Tidal Wave of Tech Earnings

The technology earnings season sped into high gear Thursday with reports from several closely watched companies that either met or slightly exceeded expectations .
The reports summed up performances during a difficult quarter for Internet and computer technology firms , which have suffered both from declining stock prices and a slowing economy .
Nortel Networks and Sun Microsystems led off the afternoon with earnings figures that fell in line with analyst expectations .
Microsoft , which warned investors late last year of slowing sales , also met lowered forecasts .
Prominent among those who did a little better than expected was eBay , which reported a profit of $ 24 million .
Sun earnings as expected : Network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. reported on Thursday second-quarter sales that rose 44 percent and profits that met Wall Street expectations .
Sun , which resisted an industry-wide trend to lower forecasts for this quarter in the face of economic weakness , said operating earnings , excluding one-time items , were $ 552 million , or 16 cents per share , after $ 354 million , or 10 cents per share , a year ago .
SUNW
Sales at the Palo Alto , Calif.-based firm rose to $ 5.12 billion from $ 3.55 billion in the quarter a year ago .
Analysts had expected Sun to turn in operating profits of 16 cents per share on sales of $ 5.29 billion , First Call/Thomson Financial research reported .
Nortel sees growth ahead : Nortel Networks Corp. on Thursday confirmed its forecast for growth in 2001 as it posted fourth-quarter results that matched market estimates .
NT
Nortel said it expects revenue and earnings to grow by 30 percent .
Previously it had estimated 30 percent to 35 percent growth in revenue and earnings .
Nortel reported fourth-quarter net earnings of $ 825 million , or 26 cents per share , on revenues of $ 8.8 billion , versus year-earlier net earnings of $ 607 million , or 21 cents per share , on sales of $ 6.6 billion .
A group of 36 analysts polled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial expected earnings of 26 cents per share , and 20 analysts forecast revenues of $ 8.7 billion .
Including acquisition charges and one-time gains , Brampton , Ontario-based Nortel reported a net loss of $ 1.41 billion , or 46 cents per share .
EBay excited about earnings : The popular Internet auction site eBay Inc.
Thursday reported a fourth quarter profit that was larger than forecasts , as it continued to rapidly add members and expand into new merchandise categories and geographic regions .
EBay , which operates the largest online auction service where individuals and businesses exchange merchandise ranging from toys to real estate , said it earned $ 23.9 million or nine cents per diluted share in the latest quarter , compared with operating earnings of $ 5.1 million or two cents per diluted share a year ago .
EBAY
On average , analysts who follow the company had forecast earnings of 7 cents per share , according to First Call/Thomson Financial .
EBay said its revenues rose 81 percent to $ 134 million from $ 73.9 million in the year-ago quarter .




A Super Computer Collaboration

Nuclear weapon research meets genomics in a collaboration to create a supercomputer big enough to solve perhaps the most complicated problem in all of science : the function of all human cells .
Sandia National Laboratories , home of the world 's largest supercomputer ; Celera Genomics , which mapped the human genome ; and Compaq , home of the alpha chip , signed the agreement Friday morning at the Department of Energy in Washington , D.C.
CRA
The computer that Compaq hopes to build using Sandia 's and Celera 's expertise with algorithms , will be about 30 times faster than the fastest now in the world .
They hope to achieve a supercomputer that could process 100 trillion operations per second .
With Compaq 's Alpha chip , Sandia 's supercomputing powers , and Celera 's genomics expertise , the groups said they will literally tackle all of biology .
" I 'm playing my usual role of bringing the problem to the table , " said Craig Venter , president and chief scientific officer of Celera . "
We 're trying to define how to deal with a holistic view of biology . "
That includes the 100 trillion cells in the human body , which include approximately 100,000 genes , even more proteins , and the interactions between them all .
Venter said the collaboration would spend " multimillion " dollars on the development project over the next four years , but would not be more specific .
Officials at the signing of the agreement said instead of simply a funding agreement , this would be a research collaboration in which the scientists will exchange ideas and learn from each other .
" The advances that are to come are each running down similar paths to bigger and bigger supercomputers ... and we 're each working on problems much bigger than we could take on ourselves , " said Paul Robinson , president of Sandia .
Celera of Rockville , Maryland , is a private company that last year completed a map of all human genes .
Formed just three years ago , the company instigated a contentious race with the federally funded Human Genome Project when company officials announced they would create a map in only three years , while the government project had been working on it for about a decade .
As it turned out , Celera scientists needed just two years to do the job , and declared the race a tie by announcing the completion of a final draft of the human genome at the White House in June .
Celera executives attribute much of their success to their algorithm expertise , which they hope to leverage for this latest collaboration .
The working draft of the human genome map , experts said , would provide scientists with the biological foundation of human life .
The complete map would herald a revolution in medicine , giving physicians the material they need to predict , prevent and even treat disease .




MS Failure : Geeks Lose Their Site

If one wanted evidence that Microsoft 's monopoly power stifles software development , look what happened Wednesday when the company 's main website went down : Tech people who work with Windows found themselves without answers to the many questions that plague their daily lives .
While coding did not come to a complete , crunching halt , some developers did report that since they could n't access the Microsoft Knowledge Base , some of their problems with Windows products went unsolved .
The Knowledge Base is an enormous database with technical information for programming and debugging with all kinds of Windows applications .
For programmers and other tech people who work in companies where Microsoft products are the norm , the knowledge base functions as a kind of Yoda , guiding them through their thorniest Windows endeavors .
MSFT
" I 've been using the knowledge base from Day 1 , and I use it all the time -- it 's critical to what I do , " said John Harper , who e-mailed Wired News when he was denied access to the site on Wednesday .
Harper works as a programmer for American Traveler Staffing Professionals , a company that finds jobs for nurses around the country .
He is building what he calls a " content management application " for them , a Windows-based program , for which he frequently consults the Knowledge Base .
" This is the first time I 've seen it so bad , " he said . "
I 've seen slow-downs before , but this morning I could n't get into the site at all . "
Since the problem only affected Microsoft 's DNS server , and not its main website server , Harper was able to get to the knowledge base using Microsoft 's IP address : http://207.46.230.218/ .
But for some reason , this fix did n't work all the time , and not for everyone .
Other developers reported using other methods to get into the site .
Mike Eldridge , who works as a programmer at the Internet service provider Computer Caf , said that he was looking for an article on the obscure subject of Windows dial-up networking on Wednesday when he found that he was barred from the knowledge base .
Looking for a way to fix his problem , Eldridge posted a request on Slashdot , the open-source-obsessed discussion site .
A few moments later , Eldridge said , a Slashdot reader e-mailed him a way to get the Knowledge Base article he wanted .
" They sent me Google 's cache of the page , " he said , referring to the popular search engine , which keeps a copy of the sites it indexes .
But Eldridge got more than just a fix for his problem at Slashdot ; he also got many comments about his post , which rebuked the Linux-loving Slashdot fans for saying that a crashed Microsoft site was n't really so important .
Indeed , Slashdot swirled with controversy about this very point -- does it matter that Microsoft is down ?
-- and the discussion produced predictable Linux vs. Microsoft results .
But one developer said that whether or not one was a fan of Microsoft , it definitely did matter that the Knowledge Base was down .
" Half the world uses Microsoft ! " said Christopher England , a systems administrator at Indiana University , Bloomington .




MP3.com Open to Friends

MP3.com CEO Michael Robertson can n't win for losing .
Even a plan to open up his company 's software has met with some resistance .
Robertson is hoping to capitalize on the goodwill of open-source developers by making available his costly Beam-It application-programming interface .
The move is part of the company 's new developers network aimed at virally spreading MP3.com 's applications .
Beam-It allows users to access music they already own over the Internet without having to upload the songs .
Users can gain access to the songs stored in MP3.com 's database simply by placing a CD in their computer and allowing the company 's software application to verify that the CD is present in the person 's PC .
MPPP
Robertson hopes that websites looking to drive traffic to their sites will incorporate the technology into their systems , which would radically drive up subscription sales for the company .
MP3 would therefore get additional revenue from fees charged when users store more than 25 CDs .
On the surface , the move seems odd .
Robertson has already paid out over $ 150 million in damages from copyright infringement suits brought by the National Music Publishers Association and the Recording Industry Association of America for launching the service without the proper licenses .
The company is also facing increasing competition from similar services led by Musicbank , Sony 's Unsurface , and Universal 's streaming service offered through Farmclub.com .
But the initial word from some open-source programmers is that they might not be willing to sprint to the company 's aid .
Some developers , suspicious MP3.com may only be using the open-source community to do their bug testing for free , want to see how open the company really is before doing any work .
MP3.com hopes to generate interest , from any avenue , in creating software players and hardware devices using Beam-It .
---
Real secure : Earlier this week , RealNetworks purchased secure digital media company Aegisoft .
RNWK
With digital rights management facing assaults on multiple fronts -- from the Electronic Frontier Foundation , which is fighting the DeCSS case , to consumers who continually shy away from purchasing secure files -- it seems like an odd time for Real to jump into the game .




The Trouble With Wiring Palestine

Salwa Ziada would like to keep learning about computers and the Internet , but Israeli-imposed curfews keep the Palestinian girl from reaching the community computing center set up for refugees like her .
" Our center is near one of the flash points , " said Zahid Nwor , chief executive of Enlighten , a United Kingdom charity that seeks to establish computer-aided learning centers in the Palestinian refugee camps of the Middle East .
" Because of the current situation , we had to cancel all of our classes because the children could n't actually leave their homes due to the curfews . "
Months and months of clashes by Israelis and Palestinians have led to more than 380 deaths , primarily Palestinian .
Behind the headlines of Palestinian and Israeli aggression in the Palestinians ' struggle for statehood , a quiet story is emerging about a young Arab society taking baby steps in its technological infancy .
In contrast to their Israeli neighbors whose techno-wizards begat the wildly popular ICQ instant messaging network , Palestinians are struggling to develop computer and Internet literacy in a nonexistent state with a lagging technological infrastructure .
But Palestinian boys and girls like Salwa Ziada are receiving the help of groups like Enlighten and Across Borders , another nonprofit advocating for technological literacy .
" It 's not just the skills they 're going to get at the center , but it 's also the hope and opportunity they 're going to get , " Nwor said . "
These people have been disadvantaged for quite some time . "
The organization 's surveys show that the task of bringing the Palestinian people access to technology as well as computer and Internet literacy is a daunting one .
According to statistics compiled by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics , only 11 percent of Palestinian households in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip have computers .
A mere 2 percent of households have access to the Internet .
Resources are also an issue .
The typical cost on an Internet connection is $ 25 a month , while the average Palestinian worker makes $ 300 a month .
Gathering these figures has become a bit more challenging since the Israeli army shelled the Bureau of Statistics office in Ramallah in November 2000 .
Enlighten 's founders have seen the reality of these conditions on the ground .
" We went to Gaza and we were quite shocked by the conditions in the refugee camps , " said Nwor . "
We thought , ' You could build a library there and put in lots of books , ' but a lot of that information is already on the Internet . "
Still , the nonprofit has a resource crunch of its own .
Although leaders would like to teach Microsoft Word , Powerpoint , and how to find information on the Internet to all 9,000 children in the Bureij Camp of Central Gaza , their facilities only allow them to reach 70 students every two months .
" We have so much demand that it 's difficult to decide who should be in the courses , " Nwor said . "
We hope to expand the center and set up two or three more centers in the next three months . "
The aspiring artists of the Palestinian community will have to wait while the computer-focused children seeking Information Technology careers get training first , he said .
IT
For now , no children are receiving training while the Intifada rages on .
Across Borders faces a similar plight .
The nonprofit was spun off the IT unit of Birzeit University .
Its mission is to connect refugees in disparate camps through technology and to promote technological literacy .
Like Enlighten , some of its community centers are off-limits .




Pushing the Bounds of Net Film

Trevor Groth was looking for something splashy to help kick off the inaugural online show at the Sundance Film Festival .
So when Groth , who programs both the online and terrestrial offerings at the festival , came across an animated short called QRIME , he knew he had something .
pronounced like Crime
QRIME is an animated short produced by Motomichi Nakamura , who lives in Ecuador and had a difficult time communicating with Groth .
After several attempts to track down Nakamura , Groth succeeded and convinced the animator to let the Sundance Online Film Festival show his work .
" It 's really interesting and out there , " Groth said . "
Now he 's going to have a venue for people to see his films .
With the online world going through some growing pains , we want to encourage people to continue making art . "
So the online festival opened its doors to moviemakers looking to make a splash with Internet-only movies .
The opportunity to push the bounds of the new medium brought out the University of Southern California 's Labyrinth project .
Headed by Marsha Kinder , the project seeks to combine the imagery of the cinema with the interactivity of the Internet .
Kinder 's two projects splice film , animation and the facets of the Internet together to tell short stories .
But Kinder said the two projects -- which run roughly 90 to 120 minutes in length but will debut online in 15-minute blocks -- require viewers to do more than just click on hypertext for the interactivity .
" At certain points you asked questions which you answer , " Kinder said . "
are
We have a game of anagrams at a certain point .
In Memories and Desire , you are in charge of mixing the music , the movement of the sex hunters , and voiceovers and settings .
We have a turntable that can be moved to mix the music . "
Through a series of randomly generated choices , viewer interaction and narrative structure , users are guaranteed a different experience in each movie .
Besides the interactive components , the films made specifically for the Internet offer viewers a different experience than they would normally get in theaters , Groth said .
A film called The New Arrival allows viewers to make use of a 360-degree camera , essentially panning around a scene while the movie is playing .
However , animations still make up the bulk of submissions this year , Groth said -- not all of which were made for the Internet .
Wave Twisters -- The Movie is a modern day telling of Disney 's Fantasia that grew out of a scratch album from DJ Qbert .
He made the album from mixes of old Spiderman and Superman children 's records , then handed it to four animators and asked them to create a movie .
" This is a concert album and Qbert asked us to imagine what it would look like , " said co-director Sid Garon . "
So we reverse-engineered a movie out of .
All of the soundtrack came first , so it 's like having the soundtrack to Star Wars and then trying to visualize what that would look like . "
Three years later , Garon completed the project without ever stepping foot in the same room with his three cohorts .
Doug Cunningham drew the characters , along with Garon ; Henry helped direct the project ; and Tricia Golubey did the lip-synching and character animations .
By uploading images back and forth through an FTP server , the group created a 45-minute movie meant to be seen on the big screen .
Because of technological constraints -- it needs to be viewed with at least 30 frames per second or the animation gets lost -- Sundance can only put clips up on the website .
" It was actually made for television , although it 's going to play in movie theaters , " Garon said . "
We 've had a bunch of interest .
We never intended this for the Internet . "
However , Garon said the group has received a lot of interest in the project and expect to make it commercially available after the festival .




Israel 's ' First Internet Murder '

JERUSALEM -- The Israeli government has postponed a meeting scheduled for Friday to discuss the resumption of peace negotiations with the Palestinians after what Israelis are calling " Israel 's first Internet murder . "
The body of 16-year-old Israeli Ofir Rachum was found near the Palestinian town of Ramallah the previous day .
The Israeli police believe he was shot by members of the Palestinian Tanzim group , which they suspect of setting up a trap through a chat room .
Rachum , from the Mediterranean port city of Ashkelon , reportedly had struck up an online friendship several weeks ago with a girl who told him she was a 20-something American tourist staying in Jerusalem , but who now is suspected to be from Ramallah .
They moved from the chat rooms to direct e-mail contact , his friends told reporters Thursday , and then to talking regularly on the telephone .
After meeting once in Jerusalem , Rahum arranged to see her there again on Wednesday .
Police investigators suspect that , whatever her initial intentions had been , the girl was persuaded by the Tanzim to turn him over to them .
When he arrived at their appointed meeting place , instead of taking him where she was staying , it appears that she drove him out of the city towards the Palestinian town .
Somewhere on the way , according to Palestinian eye-witnesses interviewed by a French news agency , she met up with a group from the Tanzim , who shot Rahum 15 times and dumped the car , with his body in the trunk , at the outskirts of Ramallah .
His parents reported him missing a day later .
According to one account , Rachum 's cellular phone was traced by Israelis to the area , where an extensive search was carried out , the details of which have not been released .
Another account says the Palestinian police found his body .
" This is what happens when you play around too much on the Internet , " Rachum 's mother wrote in a statement after she was told of her son 's murder . "
The Internet attracted the boy and that 's what killed him .
It is all because of the Internet . "
Friends said the high school student had bragged about his Internet relationship with an " older woman . "
" He told us she was from Jerusalem , apparently an English-speaking tourist .
They spoke on-line and on the phone , " said Shlomi Abargil , one of the friends .
" She simply led him astray , " he said , adding that the two first met face-to-face a month ago in Jerusalem . "
She was 20-plus and he was only 16 and a half .
I think that is what attracted him . "
" The boy was very involved in a private Israeli portal called Rotter , " says Israel Radio 's Internet correspondent Eli Hacohen . "
He was heavily involved in the chat rooms and news groups that dealt with computers . "
Rotter , a Hebrew portal run by a father and son , put up a picture of Rachum on the Internet and Computers Forum page " in remembrance of Ofir Rachum , who was a member of the forums and the chat rooms on the site . "
Rachum also ran his own website .
Last updated on the day before he died , it says in Hebrew , " Welcome to Ofir Rachum 's site and thanks for surfing here .
Do n't forget one important thing : the site is updated daily .
Tell your friends .
I hope you have fun and come back soon . Bye . "
The Palestinian Authority has condemned Rachum 's murder , and have apparently arrested several suspects .
They are calling the motive " criminal . "
The Israeli police and security forces are also investigating .
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak said it was a " vile killing by murderers lacking a human image , " adding that such murder made peace negotiations even more difficult .
Ofir Rahum was buried Friday morning in his hometown .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Kiwi Kayakers : Ice Ice Baby

WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- It 's summer now in the Antarctic : endless days , a balmy zero to minus-10 Celsius , chunky icebergs and the occasional hurricane-force wind .
Kayaking -- yes , kayaking -- into this daunting climate are three New Zealand adventurers .
The trio -- Graham Charles , Marcus Waters and Mark Jones -- have just started on a trip that will take them 1,200 kilometers from the top of the Antarctic Peninsula to the start of the Antarctic ice shelf .
They want to bring a little romance back into adventure . "
I do n't want to lose the roots and foundation of the adventure philosophy , that attitude of old where adventurers looked at maps and said , ' What if ?
' " Graham Charles expounded to the New Zealand Listener .
Their huge task seems to have rallied many to support them , even if they seem only too eager . "
I am so happy to be back on the frozen land and on our own terms , our own rules and common sense , " Graham Charles wrote in his last e-mail before setting off in the kayaks .
For Neville Jones -- whose company , Mapworld , donated GPS equipment -- it is their first serious sponsorship . "
global positioning system
It grabbed me , " he said . "
I thought it was a fabulous adventure , and even though we are a relatively small business , we were keen to support it . "
The GPS will be key to getting the team through any Antarctic mist .
Equally important is the kayaking team 's only communications link , VHF radio , just strong enough to contact any ships within five kilometers of the trio . "
Any other technology , apparently , was far too heavy for them to carry , " said Sue Perry , their website designer and spokeswoman .
The team hopes that updates on the website will come from messages they can send back via ships in the area .
One ship , the Tooluka , will be around for parts of the kayak team 's journey and will be able to give them weather and ice information .
Ensuring radio life is critical . "
We 've programmed the radio to operate at different strengths , " said Andrew Trevelyan , communications manager at Tait Electronics , which supplied the radio equipment . "
So if they see a vessel a long way away , they can flick it to the marine radio channel at very high strength and they will get good communication with them .
" But if they end up very close to a ship , they can switch to a different number .
It will still be the same channel but the radio will operate at lower power so that the batteries will last longer . "
Other technologies have been adapted for the extreme conditions .
Veteran kayak designer Ron Augustin made the boats light but tough . "
We stretched it out so it would be faster .
It would carry the extra gear on board and be more stable , and then we constructed it out of virtually a total kevlar construction on the hull . "
Kevlar , Augustin said , is used in making bulletproof vests .
In the Antarctic , it will shield the kayakers from ice and rocks .
" One of the problems is that they have to put crampons on to get out of the boat .
They 've got to be able to stand up in the boat without poking the spikes through the bottom of the boat .
That 's probably one of the highest loadings that will come on them , " Augustin says .
The 18-month preparation for the 6-week journey had to be meticulous .
Everything from rations to sea boots must be just right .
The Antarctic , despite its increasing accessibility , is unforgiving .
" It 's never ever been sea-kayaked before .
You 've always got people going down there in research and big ships and things but no one has ever sea-kayaked it before , so it 's quite a challenge in the cold and everything else .
" They are up against it , " Sue Perry said . "
They do n't know what 's going to hit them really . "




Closed Encounters of the 3G Kind

For wireless technology evangelists , 2001 is the big year .
That 's when the United States wraps up its mobile license auction and joins Europe and Asia in rolling out next-generation networks that will give cellular phone users worldwide roaming and rich , streaming video .
3G
Well , maybe .
If a San Diego researcher 's predictions come true , streaming video over wireless devices will be a red herring in the next couple of years .
Why ?
The rollout of broadband services has been " embarrassingly slow " and the penetration of handheld devices in such major markets as the United States is low , researchers at the Larta technology firm say in a report titled " Hollywood Unstrung . "
As for rich , streaming content , there 's nothing to watch .
Venture capitalists are n't pumping money into content-producing companies that could make streaming video a hit , Larta reports .
" Despite the large amount of media buzz directed at the impending revolution in new-media content and new communications technologies , penetration rates for broadband Internet access in homes remain quite low , " Larta CEO Rohit Shukla said . "
Studies of consumers ... show some reluctance to adopt new technologies .
" While Palm devices are the buzz , less than 4 percent of the U.S. population actually owns one today , " he said .
Members of the industry were quick to shoot down Larta 's findings .
They say cellular companies have perhaps been too busy targeting professionals , and have n't shown consumers how these devices could be used for entertainment purposes like watching video clips or playing games .
As a result , penetration rates among the general public remain low .
" My feeling is you need to see mobile multimedia to believe it , " said Robert Tercek , president of wireless technology firm PacketVideo . "
Of course this is going to happen . "
Tercek first learned of Larta 's study at a conference .
He said Larta made it sound as if no one could stream video today , although PacketVideo has built its business around it .
The company makes money by licensing its technology to network operators so they can offer streaming video to their customers .
PacketVideo is n't banking on creating content , but Tercek says he can see how carriers can make money off it -- either through advertising or charging customers for an " added feature . "
" The business model for streaming video is better than the business model for wired line , " Tercek said . "
communication
As we all know , where voice goes , data follows and where data goes , multimedia follows .
" It 's a question of when . "
Larta Chief Operating Officer Victor Hwang , one of the authors of the report , is , ironically , asking that very question .




Scully 'd Kill for this Telescope

A new telescope that searches the night sky for laser signals from alien civilizations will be announced on Monday .
At the OSETI III Conference in San Jose , California , astronomers will unveil the first telescope dedicated entirely to finding light signals emanating from extraterrestrial intelligences .
The All-Sky OSETI Observatory , currently being built about 40 miles west of Boston in Harvard , Massachusetts , will conduct the most comprehensive search to date for alien laser signals .
Starting in 2002 , the new OSETI -- Optical Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence -- telescope will scan the entire northern sky for signs of alien life .
The search will be conducted over 200 clear nights .
Searching for optical signals is n't new -- it was first suggested by the Nobel-winning laser pioneer Charles Townes in 1961 .
But previous searches have been limited to just a fraction of the sky .
The All-Sky OSETI project 's leader , Paul Horowitz of Harvard University , said the search assumes there are civilizations scattered around the galaxy every few hundred light years and that they have built signal beacons based on lasers .
" It would be an intentional communication system to bring new , technological civilizations into the fold , " he said .
Horowitz said lasers are a likely choice because they have a higher information-bearing capacity than radio and do n't disperse .
Powerful lasers are also easy to build : Using current technology it would be possible to create a laser 5,000 times brighter than the sun , Horowitz said .
But to see it , the viewer would have to be directly inside the tiny beam , a very unlikely event .
To get any attention , alien civilizations would have to beam in all directions at once .
But to transmit a sustained beam of light all over the galaxy takes an enormous amount of energy -- just look at the sun .
Instead , it is more likely that multi-directional signals are transmitted in very , very short pulses , in the order of a billionth of a second , Horowitz said .
While such short flashes would be extremely bright -- brighter than the local stars -- they would be too fast to be seen with the naked eye or a conventional telescope .
To detect these flashes , the 72-inch , wide-field OSETI telescope is equipped with 1,000 ultrafast detectors , which are sensitive to laser pulses one billionth of a second in length .
In some respects the detectors are too sensitive , Horowitz said .
" We see flashes once a night , " he said . "
But we 've never seen repetitions .
We 've never seen more than one flash from the same site . "
The flashes may be natural cosmic events but most are anomalies , Horowitz said .
He hopes a twin telescope planned at Princeton will help pinpoint genuine signals .
If a flash occurs in two separate instruments simultaneously , it is likely to be a real signal .




Post-Worm Panda Attacked

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
A battle over secrets broke out between antivirus companies last week , and resulted in one software company 's suspension from the industry 's information-sharing networks .
On January 12th , Panda Software announced to all " Internet users " that it had discovered a new and dangerous worm , HTML/LittleDavinia .
HTML/LittleDavinia turned out to be a tiny threat , affecting only five companies .
But Panda itself was hit hard by the LittleDavinia fallout .
The company was quickly attacked by the antivirus industry for making a public announcement about the worm without first notifying other anti-virus researchers and providing samples of the worm , as is required by the industry groups that Panda belongs to , such as the REVS list .
Rapid Exchange of Virus Samples
The LittleDavinia debacle has also left others in the industry hoping that this war of words will n't launch a return to the days when virus application developers hoarded information for their own benefit .
" It used to be a problem in the late 1980s that anti-virus companies would announce detection of a new virus , but then sit on the sample so that anyone else could not add detection of it to their programs .
I really hope this will not start happening all over again , " said Mikko Hermanni Hyppnen , manager of Anti-Virus Research at F-Secure Corporation .
The ill will engendered by LittleDavinia may take some time to heal .
Antivirus application developers share code samples and virus information so that they can move quickly to update their software .
All agree that speed is of the essence in the war against viruses , but Panda did n't provide samples to its colleagues until three days after it issued the press release warning the public about the LittleDavinia worm .
Shortly after the incident , Panda spokesperson Donna Rogers said that an employee out sick with a virus was the one who normally posted information to industry alert lists .
of the human type
His absence caused the delay in posting information , Rogers explained .
But that excuse did n't impress Panda 's virus protection colleagues .
Vincent Gullotto , director of Network Associates ' antivirus emergency research team was infuriated with Panda , and said the Panda 's inaction proved that the REVS list should simply be dismantled .
" Panda did not follow the agreed upon processes and send samples to other AV Vendors when releasing a press statement .
The REVS program has failed , and so did Panda , " Gullotto fumed .
Network Associates has been in the hot seat itself for this same issue .
NAI
Three years ago , McAfee Associates -- now the core of NAI 's antivirus team -- warned the public of the Remote Explorer virus , but did n't pass along samples of the virus to the industry for almost a week , according to Rob Rosenberger , webmaster of Vmyths , a virus industry watch website .
Initially Panda seemed remorseful about the time lag that occurred between its public announcement of LittleDavinia and submitting code to the industry .
But as the attacks from other antivirus companies regarding its actions escalated , Panda went on the defensive .
Patrick Hinojosa , Panda 's general manager of U.S. operations , released a statement that declared in no uncertain terms that Panda believed the " public 's right to know about viruses comes first . "
Hinojosa also said that the LittleDavinia threat had been contained only due to " quick action " by Panda .
" Because this is an international company with offices in 40 countries around the world and most viruses are written outside of the United States , Panda often picks up on new viruses before other anti-virus companies , " said Hinojosa . "
Therefore we know that our competitors look to us to provide information on new viruses from around the world .




Planet Suffers Big Hack Attack

A group calling itself Pentaguard simultaneously cracked government websites in the United States , England and Australia
The group replaced the home pages of the sites over the weekend with a statement reading " The largest .gov & .mil mass defacement in the history of mankind . "
It caused the temporary disruption of at least two dozen sites .
The effort was managed across time zones and across platforms , according to Attrition.org , a hacker tracking outfit .
According to Attrition.org , the break-ins were not random ; targets were selected for their relation to topical issues .
Two sites in the United States were hacked , along with seven in Britain and 15 in Australia .
In the United States , the Republican Caucus for the California Legislature was hit while the state is facing rolling blackouts .
The Alaskan Office of the Department of Interior was targeted because Secretary of the Interior-designate Gale Norton favors drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge .
In England , an educational site on mad cow disease was defaced , along with and some small city and county government sites .
Small municipal government sites were also hacked in Australia , along with the search page for the Commonwealth of Australia .
Known for preying on government sites around the world , Pentaguard plastered a " nyah-nyah " rant with references to Ferraris , dedications to important female companions , the uselessness of the site 's content , requests for pornographic content and requests that the government sites sell beer .
According to Attrition.org , Pentaguard has broken into 53 sites internationally in the past two years .
An official at the National Infrastructure Protection Center of the FBI said they group was unaware of the incident and declined to comment further .
NIPC
One Internet security expert said the attackers should n't be perceived as technical even though the were able to synchronize the international efforts .
" Let 's face it , a site that focuses on the mad cow will probably not have its crack systems integrators buttoning down the servers , " said Jon Callas , director of software engineering at Counterpane Internet Security Inc.
" They focused on sites that were vulnerable , " Callas said .
And because they used a simple method of hacking , they probably spent just a few hours Saturday morning setting it up , he said .




From Living Large to Just Living

While the layoffs and closings are real , a study released Friday confirms the IT sector is still growing in Silicon Valley .
Not at the wild and crazy pace of early last year , of course .
But growing nonetheless .
So a techie caught in the great dot-com crash probably will n't have much of a problem getting a new job .
But the rest of the folks who rode the wave and started to think all administrative assistants make 80 grand and get catered lunch every day are in for a dose of reality -- if they have n't been handed their lunch already .
" There is a dot-com bust , but not an IT bust , " said Jay Myer , a sales VP at Headhunter.net , which lists 250,000 jobs nationwide .
The increase in IT jobs on their site from August to November 2000 was roughly 10 times the decrease in " startup " jobs , which fell 31 percent .
Gary Pfitzer of San Francisco lost his job as an editor at Pets.com last November when the company announced it would be closing its portal for good .
While the move was a bit unexpected , one benefit of the early closure was that he collected four weeks of severance pay .
And after working 45 to 50 hours a week for a solid year , the rest was n't altogether unwelcome .
" Working for a dot-com was pretty draining , and I need a break .
It 's been nice to take advantage of the layoff period .
I 'm getting caught up on exercise and taking care of things at home . "
Pfitzer has picked up his search in the New Year and scored his first interview last week .
He reports that some former co-workers from Pets.com , particularly engineers , scored new jobs right away , but others , like himself , are still looking .
A study released Friday of the Silicon Valley economy -- a bellwether for the new economy -- estimates the Valley 's economy grew 3 percent in 2000 , slowing from the furious 3.8 growth it posted in 1999 .
Kimberly Wallesh , an economist who worked on the study , thinks their findings reveal a healthy trend .
The slowdown should relieve some of the tremendous pressure the boom has put on infrastructure , housing and companies starving for talent , she said .
" We 're starting now to return to a more sustainable growth rate , " she said . "
It will feel different , but really it 's a return to normal . "
The optimists are not confined to Silicon Valley .
Nancy Evans is the director at the career center for the University of Texas ' School of Engineering at Austin , where the largest department is computer engineering .
Recruiting at her department was up 11 percent last fall over the same period in 1999 .
And 125 companies signed up for only 100 available slots at the summer intern fair coming up on Feb. 2 , up from 84 last year , she said .
From where she sits , the bust looks more like media hype than reality .
" We 're seeing things in the paper more than we 're hearing anything about it ourselves , to tell you the truth , " she said . "
Dell and Motorola are in town , and our students never really went to dot-coms much anyway .
Engineers are a cautious breed . "




Lucent Ponders Deep Cuts

Lucent Technologies , which last year missed its profit targets and fell behind rivals in the key optical networking market , is expected to outline its plan to cut $ 1 billion in costs and trim jobs on Wednesday , analysts said .
Some analysts have speculated that Lucent could cut up to 10,000 employees , or about 8 percent of its work force .
LU
However , a Lucent executive , who declined to be named , told Reuters that the company has already cut the force through attrition , so any layoffs would be on a much smaller scale .
Wall Street analysts also expect Lucent to post a loss of 27 cents a share for the fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31 , and a loss of 22 cents for fiscal 2001 , according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial .
The company has said its restructuring plan would include work force reductions , as well as the consolidation and elimination of duplicate marketing functions and possibly some product lines .
- - -
Time Warner plays hardball : A 15-year-old Singaporean school girl says she will not surrender the rights to her website featuring Harry Potter children 's books despite the threat of legal action against her .
Chan , who started her website dedicated to the wildly popular books in October 1999 , has now been asked by Time Warner Entertainment and the books ' author , J.K. Rowling , to surrender the site 's name .
Chan is the registered owner of the disputed domain name harrypotternetwork.net , although her Harry Potter Internet site is found at www.thehpn.com .
" I got the domain name harrypotternetwork.net and I was going to use it but I decided I did n't like it and just hung on to it , " Chan said in an interview Sunday .
After registering the domain , Chan received a letter from the lawyers representing Time Warner Entertainment and Rowling that said she had to surrender the domain because the name ' Harry Potter ' was the intellectual property of his clients .
- - -
You got to spend it to make it : Software giant Microsoft kicks off a $ 220 million advertising campaign for its Windows 2000 operating system , hoping to boost sales of its flagship product in the server market .
" This is a case where our marketing has actually lagged our products and delivery , " Mike Delman , Microsoft 's general manager of advertising and events , said . "
We are really feeling the need now to go out and tell a story about something we 've been doing for quite a bit of time and not really probably gotten the credit for doing . "
Aimed at business PCs and the powerful server computers that run networks and dish up Web pages , Windows 2000 was launched last February after a three-year , billion-dollar development effort .
While Windows 2000 has generally received high marks from the industry , and the desktop version has sold well , sales to the high-end server market where Microsoft is hoping to secure a foothold are thought to have been slow .
MSFT
- - -
Where the zebra roam : Japan 's leading mobile phone operator NTT DoCoMo said it will start offering international roaming services for its Japanese customers in Europe , Asia , Africa and Oceania starting next Monday .
At the same time , DoCoMo will also roll out new handsets that will be compatible with both the global system for mobile communications standard and also the personal digital cellular system standard used only in Japan .
NTT
The moves come as part of DoCoMo 's efforts to extend its global reach in the face of increasing competition .
- - -
Let the games begin : Sony Computer Entertainment America said it has bought software developers Red Zone Interactive and Naughty Dog in a bid to provide new video games for its PlayStation video game consoles .
Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed .
Red Zone Interactive will exclusively produce its sports video games for the Sony PlayStation series , expanding on its 989 Sports titles that include NFL GameDay , NBA ShootOut , NHL FaceOff and NCAA Final Four .
Naughty Dog makes the Crash Bandicoot series and Crash Team Racing .
- - -
Delaying the inevitable ? : Struggling Internet retailer Letsbuyit.com has raised 2.5 million euros of the 4 million it needs by Thursday afternoon to avoid bankruptcy , an industry source said .
$ 2.32 million
But even if it does raise the outstanding 1.5 million euros to satisfy judges that it can stay afloat , it still needs to find a further 30 million euros by March 14 to satisfy its short-term liquidity needs , the source said .
A court ruling on Friday gives the debt-laden e-tailer until late Thursday to come up with 4 million euros in funding or bank guarantees , following a petition for bankruptcy by Letsbuyit 's own debt moratorium administrators .
- - -
Drug merger means savings : GlaxoSmithKline , the newly merged pharmaceuticals group , could realize cost savings over and above the 750 million pounds already forecast , a source familiar with the firm said .
$ 1.10 billion
GlaxoSmithKline is keen to squeeze further costs out of the business to lift medium-term earnings growth , which will be hit by a series of product setbacks last year . "
GSK
They need an extra 150-200 million pounds of cost savings in order to get five-year earnings growth back to the 15 percent earnings target we think they have internally , " said Martin Hall of HSBC , who rates the stock a " hold . "
A company spokesman declined to comment , saying only that an original cost-savings plan calling for a total of 1 billion pounds of pre-tax annual cost within three years that was set out when the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham was announced last January remained in place .
The figure disappointed analysts at the time , since many had pencilled in savings of around 1.2 billion pounds .
- - -
New spaces : InfoSpace , which provides commerce , information and communication infrastructure services to websites and wireless companies , said on Monday that it has reappointed Naveen Jain as chief executive , effective immediately , and also named a new chief operating officer and chief financial officer .
Jain succeeds Arun Sarin , who has elected to focus on InfoSpace 's wireless business and international strategy from his position as vice chairman , the Bellevue , Washington-based company said .
InfoSpace 's board also named Ed Belsheim COO .
- - -
Deal du jour : Cable & Wireless has won a $ 100 million deal to supply telecoms services to media giant News Corp , the British operator said .
The three-year agreement covers voice , data and Internet services for News Corp companies around the world , and marks the start of a global alliance between the companies , C&W said .
- - -
Juno users on the rise : Internet service provider Juno Online Services said active subscribers reached 4.0 million in December , up 8 percent from 3.7 million in September .
Reuters and AP contributed to this report .




Gazoontite : Going , Going , Gone

SAN FRANCISCO -- From a distance , the trendy office suite , with its loft-style floor plan and bare brick walls , might have looked like the headquarters of any bustling new economy business .
Rows of neat workstations .
Bright , new Pentium computers .
Natural light filtering in through large-paned windows .
Upon closer inspection , the only thing to mar that tranquil picture was the fact that everything -- from the 19-inch monitors , to the tall , wooden book shelf , to the office TV set -- was neatly tagged for sale .
That , and the bellowing tones of an auctioneer echoing down from above .
" Everything sold today is sold as is , where is , " cautioned Adam Alexander , in rapid-fire auctioneer-speak from the second floor of the office suite .
Slumped in chairs and standing in the aisles before him were some 400-plus bargain hunters .
The sale would continue for the next seven hours or so , until all the remains of Gazoontite.com -- which sold health supplies for asthma and allergy sufferers -- were sold off to the highest bidder .
Swanky San Francisco offices aside , this auction was no new economy shindig .
This was the old economy , where people showed up in person to buy real products for cash and then lugged them home .
No one was buying any domain names here .
Just a PC and an extension cord , please .
As asset auctions go , the spoils at Gazoontite were nothing to sneeze at .
Pardon the cheesy pun .
These things happen when you name a company Gazoontite.com .
There were about 700 items in all , ranging from the obscure -- a Euroclean vacuum and a power drill -- to the mundane -- enough office chairs to seat a small army .
That 's not to mention the computers : Dell Dimension Pentium IIIs , Toshiba laptops , IBM Thinkpads and even a couple of Mac G4s .
And of course , there were monitors galore .
Overall , it was a mid-sized auction for a failed dot-com , said Don Cowan , partner at Cowan Alexander Equipment Group , the company that arranged the sale .
Cowan , who has arranged about 40 dot-com auctions in the last year , said it 's not unusual to see companies pull the plug just shortly after making massive purchases of computer equipment and office furniture .
" They spent their funds in anticipation of growth , " he said .
When that growth does n't happen , investors and creditors turn to auctioneers to get a return on their money .
Over the next three months , Cowan 's firm plans to arrange another four or five dot-com auctions .
The companies doing the sales either shut down or decided to scale back their businesses and sell off unneeded equipment as prospects for new investment dry up .
Gazoontite was in many ways a typical casualty of the dot-com massacre of 2000 .
The company raised close to $ 30 million in funding from a high-profile , line-up of venture capitalists in late 1999 .
Over the next few months , it used the money to build its website and opened four brick-and-mortar stores that sold health supplies .




TV Pirates Rule Spain 's Airwaves

MADRID , Spain -- Canal Satelite Digital , Spain 's leading satellite TV provider , fired targeted electronic impulses last weekend that disabled thousands of pirated decoder cards and froze systems all over the country .
News of the attacks spread like wildfire over cracker websites , and within hours cracked codes were whizzing through modems and onto the fried cards , giving them new life .
Anyone with a little computer savvy and a couple of pieces of $ 20 hardware was back to regularly scheduled programming .
So much for CSD 's big counter-offensive .
" It does n't take long now , hours , maybe a day at the most , " said a cracker called AAS .
to fend off the attacks
AAS is a self-described " experimenter " with satellite TV who until recently ran the most popular " educational " Spanish website about breaking satellite TV codes .
AAS no longer disseminates decoding software because , he says , it 's become too much of a business .
" When there were new attacks -- about once a month -- we got about 60,000 users on the site in a day , " he said . "
It has turned into a mafia with nothing to do with experimentation ; a few do the work and a lot take advantage . "
Last November , police busted a ring of illegal card traffickers in Barcelona , nabbing over 10,000 illegal cards .
And while exact numbers are hard to come by , AAS thinks there could be up to 500,000 cards on the market .
That 's just the hardware .
The lost revenue for all of Europe 's satellite providers was estimated to be around $ 180 million in 1999 , according to a study done by Europe 's anti piracy association , the Association Europeene pour la Protection des Ouvres et Services Cryptes .
AEPOC
This figure reflects its estimates that between 10 and 20 percent of Europe 's 35 million satellite subscribers were pirating .
" We have no idea how many people are viewing our services without paying , " said Soledad Alvarez Coto , spokeswoman for CSD , which began service to Spain in 1997 and has wired over a million homes .
Actually , most pirates are paying at least something .
To hack the premium services one has to pay about $ 35 per month for the basic service , which offers less than basic cable in the United States .
The premium services , however , are where the providers hope to make money .
" The losses are probably bigger than the official market , " said John Strand , the CEO of Strand Consult , which analyzes media sales and marketing processes .
It 's a Catch-22 .
High prices increase piracy , and piracy increases prices .
CSD recently upped the cost of its basic service by a third , which caused further uproar and inspired hackers .
Emili Prado , professor of audiovisual communications at the Autonomous University of Barcelona and director of Euromonitor , cites other reasons for the steep costs .
According to Prado , there 's not a developed habit for pay-per-view ; the economies of scale are n't sufficient to support the cost of programming ; there 's a heavy dependence on American products ; and there are few locally produced products .
The high cost of programming makes the providers reluctant to utilize better , more expensive methods of encryption .
" They 're already selling basic subscriptions at a loss , and more robust encryption would push the price even higher , " Strand said . "
The real money comes from premium , pay-per-view services such as soccer . "
However , there is some debate about the profitability of soccer .
In Spain , soccer was expected to be the killer app .
But according to Alvarez , the soccer clubs keep hiking their prices .
This has further eroded the profit margin and limited the appeal among consumers so much that CSD has pushed back its break-even date to later this year , instead of at the end of 2000 .
This , along with the basic service hike , has led to rumors among hackers and crackers that satellite providers are encouraging a certain amount of pirating to boost basic service subscribers .
This is a charge that providers firmly deny .
According to Alvarez , CSD is always taking measures to confound cracking , but the crackers remain unimpressed .
" The attacks they 've done to date are n't effective , " AAS said . "
There 's talk of them replacing the decoding box and changing the system of encryption , but those are just rumors . "
While the hackers seem to have no lack of will , Europe 's politicians do n't seem to have the stomach to enact tougher anti-piracy laws .
To be prosecuted for pirating TV in Spain , the police have to actually find an illegal card , in use or en masse .
" There are no votes in fighting cheap TV , " says Strand . "
You would be making things better for the company and not the end user . "
Despite the absence of tough laws , there is a growing ennui among crackers , many of whom are convinced they 've won the now repetitive game against CSD .
They are starting to turn their skills against CSD 's competitor , VIA Digital , which claims to have never been hacked .
owned by Telefonica
" VIA has more advanced encryption technology , and that 's more interesting , " says a cracker who did n't want his nickname used . "
Everyone has CSD . "




Long Day 's Journey Into Tights

EverQuest may be the most successful online game so far , drawing 300,000 players , 70,000 of whom are logged into the fantasy world at any time .
Although I 've learned a lot about people during my countless hours on EQ , fighting in dungeons or making clothes from animal skins , I received a most valuable lesson when I decided to walk a few virtual miles in slightly smaller shoes .
In the eight months since I began playing EverQuest , all of my characters have been males .
Although EQ 's wizards , gnomes , ogres , and trolls have different capabilities for intelligence and strength , gender does n't seem to affect player skills : Men and women of each race are more or less equal .
So until recently I had never felt the urge to have an online sex change .
Changing your gender when you enter the EQ realm is n't all that unique .
Experience had taught me that at least half of the female characters are actually males , and a lot of women take on male personas so the men do n't harass them .
I can usually tell the real-life gender of a player by their behavior : things like choice of words , attitude and other behaviors usually give them away after 20 seconds or so of interaction .
Still , I 'd noticed people just plain react differently to female characters , even if they do n't know who 's on the other end .
So after several months of playing a male High Elf Mage , I decided to see how the other half lives , and created a female Wood Elf Bard .
The female Wood Elf is easily the prettiest of female races in the game , and sans armor , the character is half-naked .
I was quickly reminded that Wood Elves attract a lot of attention .
Some time back , I escorted an unarmored female Wood Elf , played by a male , into unknown territory .
We stopped to chat with a trio of Dwarf characters , and all three players whistled at " her . "
I asked the guy using the female character how he felt , and well , he did n't like it .
Hopefully he 'll remember that in real life .
In creating the Wood Elf Bard , whose magic comes from songs , I got to experience first hand just how popular a woman -- especially an attractive one -- is in EverQuest .
The contrast in peoples ' response to me as a female instead of a male character was nothing short of remarkable .
First , whenever I was in a fight with one of the EQ monsters , other players who were observing would always offer their assistance if needed .
This almost never happened with my male character .
More than once the Mage would be in big trouble and I 'd be screaming at people nearby to help , and they just stood there and watched me die .
Not so as the curvaceous Bard .
In a few cases , I had three or four men offering their assistance as reinforcements .




Library of Congress Goes Digital

The Library of Congress has finally met its ambitious goal of putting 5 million historical items online by the year 2000 .
That 's no small feat considering the Internet was n't even around when the project began .
But even as the library completed this monumental task last week , some said its digital strategy still lags .
In addition , the project underscores the longstanding concern over whether the library should be geared more toward scholarly pursuits than mainstream interests .
The American Memory Project , which began as a pilot project to put images on CD-ROMs , has been woven into one of the largest digitized records of American history , with 90 collections of manuscripts , books , maps , films , sound recordings and photographs online .
Although the library has made great strides in meeting its five-year goal , 5 million represents a mere fraction of the more than 120 million items in its inventory .
That number represents an even smaller slice of the vast amount of digital material being created and published on the Web every day .
A report last summer by the National Research Council found that the library has made very slow progress in acquiring , preserving , cataloging and accessing digital material .
The fear is that the library continues to focus on archiving traditional print media instead of dealing with the proliferation of digital information .
" If the Library of Congress fails to make significant progress , it is in danger of becoming a book museum that houses a collection of priceless materials , " said James O'Donnell , vice provost for information systems and computing at the University of Pennsylvania and chairman of the committee that produced the report .
While American Memory has been a success , it is only a small step toward developing a larger digital strategy .
" American Memory was an excellent pilot for the library to undertake to learn how to digitize , " O'Donnell said . "
But it felt to us more like a demonstration project . "
Part of the problem is that the library 's role in the information age is unclear .
As a creation of Congress , the library 's mission is to serve both Congress and the public by building and maintaining comprehensive collections of historical and cultural records .
But while the library has focused on putting its historical collections online , it has neglected the growing number of electronic books , websites , electronic journals and other forms of electronic information that need to be stored .
So far , the library has n't developed a broad digital strategy and lacks the capacity necessary for accomplishing this arduous task .
" The Library of Congress is not a national library and it 's not at all clear that their mission is or should be to be the library for everybody , " O'Donnell said .
" Taking existing books and digitizing them is a small issue for the Library of Congress , " O'Donnell said . "
The real challenge is to collect and make available the stuff being published by the mass of publications and individuals . "
Instead of digitizing books or cataloging websites , the library has focused on putting its historical multimedia collections of original documents , photographs , video and audio recordings online .
" We have n't really concentrated on putting books online , " said Guy Lamolinara , spokesman for the Library of Congress . "
Our focus has been on unique and unusual items you would n't find in other libraries . "
Deciding what items to include in the American Memory Project was no easy task .
The project enlisted the help of a team of educators , librarians and historians to help with the selection .
Experts focused on items that were rare or unique , of educational and cultural value , and easily formatted for the Internet .
Copyright was another key consideration .
" Virtually everything on our site is not copyrighted or was once copyrighted and is now in the public domain , " Lamolinara said . "
Our focus is on historical collections . "
While most of the selected items were copyright-free , directors had to gain permission to digitize some copyrighted material .
" We were to some extent limited in what we could take , " said Marvin Kranz , an American history specialist who worked on the presidential inauguration collection .
Private donors also helped decide which items would get digitized first by funding individual projects from a list of curator-selected items .
AT&T funded the Alexander Graham Bell collection .
Reuters contributed $ 1 million to put the Washington and Jefferson presidential papers online .
" They saw it as a great way to jump-start the project online , " Lamolinara said .
But critics said that some items were overlooked in the project 's attempts to appeal to the mass public .




Privacy Battle Brews in England

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Clean up your hard drive and mind your manners if you live in or are traveling to the United Kingdom .
Police there may soon be able to copy and store the contents of computers , collect and warehouse samples of human DNA and fine people for misdemeanors without having to arrest them first .
The new Criminal Justice and Police Bill , which began what is expected to be its long journey through British legal and political channels on Friday , is being promoted as a defense against " yob culture . "
Yob is a British slang term for punks or hooligans , and the bill gives police extended powers to deal harshly with the drunk and disorderly .
But the bill covers more than quality-of-life crimes .
It also allows the police to expand their DNA database by permitting all legally acquired DNA samples to be stored indefinitely -- even if those samples belong to people who were later acquitted or not even charged with a crime .
Section 49 of the bill gives British police officers and customs guards the power to copy the disk of any computer device found during a legal search in order to be able to carefully examine the contents at a later time .
" They have to have a reasonable basis that the disk contains something relevant to what they are searching for , but it would seem to give them carte blanche to seize computers since it would almost always be reasonable to assume that a computer in a premises would or could contain information relevant to the search , " said Edward Hayes , a Manhattan attorney .
the bill
Hayes also pointed out that under the new bill , importing pornography would be considered , in the bill 's wording , a " serious arrestable offence , " and so any suspicion that porn lurks on a computer could provide a reason for a search of that computer by customs officers .
" The answer to whether they would take advantage of that to routinely copy the contents of computers would depend on your personal level of paranoia , " said Hayes . "
At this point in time I have no reason to think that they would or would n't . "
British customs guards have been checking the contents of travelers ' computers since the late '90s , an HM Customs and Excise spokesperson acknowledged , but until now they have n't been able to do more than a fast scan of the contents .
Her Majesty 's
" These checks were and continue to be performed in an effort to keep pornography out of England .
And suitcases and computers are the same to us , " the spokesperson said
" Travelers must be prepared and willing to have the contents of whatever they are bringing into our country checked . "
He declined to say what software was used for the scans , and said there were no current plans to make copies of the contents of hard drives .
" We will see what happens with the Police Bill .
Currently we are simply allowed to check hard drives for pornography .
Our current law does not entitle us or the police to seize material from one place in order to examine it elsewhere . "
" But since we are looking for pornography , not product plans or personal banking information , normal people should n't worry . "
Some corporate travelers , who are sensitive about the privileged company information stored on their computers , are still concerned about the new regulations , as are some journalists , who may have an odd assortment of research on their hard drives .
" A quick look through my files would shows information on hackers , viruses , antigovernment protests , espionage and drugs , " said Jeff Leydon , a Los Angeles freelance writer who contributes to computer and underground culture magazines , and often travels on assignment .




Bush Blocks Enviro Orders

President George W. Bush , less than 90 minutes after he took the oath of office on Saturday , ordered his chief of staff , Andrew Card , to distribute a memorandum directing the department heads to hold off on publishing any new or pending regulations in the Federal Register .
This act -- one of his first as the nation 's 43rd president -- effectively blocks a spate of Clinton 's executive orders intended , among other things , to create a number of new national monuments .
Clinton issued a flurry of environment-related executive orders during his final weeks in office , such as a measure designed to limit water pollution generated by factory farms .
Since the orders can not take effect until they have appeared in the Federal Register for a certain amount of time , however , the memo may mean those orders are never implemented .
The memo also directs the department heads to " temporarily postpone the effective date " of all regulations that have been published in the Federal Register , but which have not yet taken effect .
That provision , which will stretch over a period of 60 days , renders moot a host of environment-related measures , such as a recently unveiled U.S. Environmental Protection Agency rule that mandates a 95 percent reduction in harmful diesel emissions by 2006 .
Moreover , the memo calls on the nation 's independent regulatory agencies to " voluntarily " suspend all new and pending rule-making efforts until they can be reviewed by the Bush administration .
The memo declares that such a suspension would advance " the interest of sound regulatory practice , " and would help to stave off the onset of " costly , burdensome , or unnecessary " regulation .
The memo sets in motion the Bush administration 's long-held pledge to conduct a " vigorous review " of the myriad executive orders and other non-legislative federal regulations that were promulgated in the final weeks -- and even hours -- of the Clinton administration .
Four weeks before the November election , for example , the Clinton administration was placing an average of 210 pages of regulations per day in the Federal Register , one of the highest rates ever recorded .
A number of Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill had been sharply critical of the Clinton administration 's regulatory actions , especially those that were put forth by agencies such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency .
EPA
Oklahoma Senator Jim Inhofe decried the Clinton administration EPA for trying to " cram through scores of rules and other regulatory decisions without proper disclosure , " a practice that Inhofe called " irresponsible and wrong . "
Other Congressional Republicans went further , vowing to roll back many of the environmental protections initiated by the Clinton administration .
Utah Congressman Jim Hansen has promised to undo the National Monuments that Clinton designated across several Western states , and to return the public lands to their former management status .
Hansen , the new chairman of the House Resource committee , last week announced that his Congressional panel will scrutinize the rules and regulations implemented by the Clinton administration " that may have violated federal law " or " circumvented established procedures . "
The directive put forth by President Bush on Saturday only elicited more apprehension among conservation advocacy groups , many of which have long feared that the former Texas governor will enact policies disastrous for the nation 's environment .
Frank O'Donnell , executive director of the Washington-based Clean Air Trust , worried that Bush 's memo was the first step toward undoing the EPA 's newly enacted diesel emissions rule .
" Given the massive health benefits of the diesel cleanup , it would be a terrible blunder for the new administration to weaken or delay these new standards , " O'Donnell said .
The EPA 's new diesel rule , which falls within procedural parameters of the regulatory suspension put forth by Bush on Saturday , would prevent some 8,300 premature deaths each year , according to EPA scientists .
The rule , by lowering emissions from heavy duty trucks and buses , would also stave off the onset of more than 20,000 cases of bronchitis and 360,000 asthma attacks annually , EPA scientists claim .
Those factors may or may not exempt the EPA 's diesel emissions measure from the reach of the Bush administration 's new regulatory suspension , which exempts any rules pertaining to " emergency or other urgent situations relating to health and safety . "
One EPA official , requesting anonymity , told ENS that the agency is " trying to figure out " which regulatory actions might be subject to the memo , and which measures might be exempted .
" We have not made any final decisions on a lot of pending regulations , and whether they 're subject to this or not .
At this point , nobody can say which rules might be pulled back , " the official said .
The White House could not be reached for comment on the Bush administration 's new regulatory review plan as of late Monday .
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Estrada Got the Message

Smart Communications , the Filipino mobile phone network provider , handled 70 million text messages last week , up 55 percent from the week earlier , as people power turned up the heat on disgraced President Joseph Estrada .
Even before last week 's dramatic events , which led to Estrada 's ouster and the rise to power of Gloria Macapagal Arroyo , the Philippines was the " texting " capital of the world .
Estrada was dumped out of office on Saturday as hundreds of thousands took to the streets .
In recent weeks , the anti-Estrada campaign has been played out on radio , television and on the Internet .
But cell phones best illustrated the power that technology has put in Filipinos ' hands .
- - -
Job cuts keep on coming : Internet service and content provider ExciteAtHome will lay off 250 employees , or about 8 percent of its staff , in a move to refocus on its fast-growing broadband division and cut costs at its online content divisions .
A company spokeswoman said the cuts would not affect the company 's AtHome or AtWork divisions , which provide high-speed Internet access over cable lines .
While those businesses continue to show rapid growth , the Excite.com portal , which delivers online content to a narrowband audience , has been hurt by the slowdown in online ad spending , she said .
- - -
No double-cross by DoubleClick : Shares of DoubleClick climbed more than 7 percent Tuesday morning after the Federal Trade Commission concluded its inquiry into the online advertising company 's privacy issues .
The FTC concluded that DoubleClick 's staff never used or disclosed consumers ' personally identifiable information for purposes other than those disclosed in its privacy policy .
The investigation began in February amid an uproar from privacy advocates who were alarmed by DoubleClick 's plans to merge the names of anonymous users and their Web-surfing activities with personally identifiable information from its Abacus Direct offline database unit .
DCLK
DoubleClick 's stock fell more than 90 percent during 2000 .
Credit Suisse First Boston analyst Jamie Kiggen said in a research note that the upside of the news is overshadowed by larger concerns about the growth of Internet advertising .
" This closes an important chapter in the privacy saga for DoubleClick , but it 's probably not the end of the book as the company still faces some opposition from the attorneys general of several states and still needs to implement most of its online data business , " Kiggen said .
- - -
If ya can n't beat 'em ... : Shares in Sega surged after a Japanese media report said the struggling game maker could soon announce a plan to supply software for rival Sony 's popular PlayStation 2 game console .
Earlier this month , the Jiji news agency said Sega will unveil a business plan to supply software for Sony and possibly Microsoft 's new " XBox " system , scheduled to be launched this fall .
Sega , the world 's third-largest home video-game maker , has been struggling to emerge from three straight years of red ink and increasing competition in the video-game industry .
Sega declined to comment on the latest report .
Sony would not confirm or deny it .
" Sega has the strongest manpower among the big three when it comes to game creators , employing about 800 people , " said Yuta Sakurai , an analyst . "
Sega , Sony and Nintendo
Supplying software to others will give it a chance to make the best use of its human resources . "
A Sony spokeswoman said Sega 's entry into the game software business could potentially broaden a lineup of games played on PlayStation2 . "
SNE
This is a welcome move for PlayStation2 .
Sega has excellent software technology and a pool of popular game software , " she said .
- - -
Let 's unmake a deal : CNET Networks said it had scaled back its commitments to technology magazine publisher Ziff Davis Media , trimming its content services agreement to two years from five .
CNET said in a statement that its merger last year with ZDNet , " and the broad collection of popular Web brands that resulted from the combination , has caused us to re-evaluate the need for such a long contractual relationship with Ziff Davis Media . "
CNET
Under the revised contracts , which become effective March 1 , CNET Networks and Ziff Davis Media will share online rights to content from 11 Ziff Davis Media print magazines for one year .
In addition , Ziff Davis will continue to provide production and circulation services for CNET Networks ' Computer Shopper magazine for up to two years .
- - -
School 's out forever : Computer Learning Centers is going out of business .
The company has suspended classes at all 25 of its campuses and told its 1,200 employees not to come back to work .
The shutdown leaves its 3,800 students nationwide out in the cold mid-term .
The company lost $ 6 million , or 32 cents per share , for the nine months ending Oct. 31 , 2000 .
CLCX
In addition , the Department of Education ordered the firm to pay $ 187 million to the federal government for illegally paying commissions to CLC admissions officers .
The abrupt closure came after negotiations with a potential buyer collapsed .
----
Anything boys can do ... : The 200-year-old London Stock Exchange is set to appoint its first woman chief executive , sources close to the exchange said , putting ex-investment banker Clara Furse in charge at a critical time for the badly bruised institution .
She has not yet been confirmed .
With rival euro zone bourses like Frankfurt 's Deutsche Boerse forging ahead with flotation plans which could raise cash to make acquisitions , Furse has a tough task ahead .
Furse would succeed Gavin Casey , who quit late last year after the LSE 's proposed merger with Frankfurt collapsed following Swedish OM Gruppen 's hostile bid for London , which also failed .
The setback with the German exchange and the bitter fight against OM left London 's strategy in tatters .
" The boys have made a mess of it so why not let the girls have a go ? " said Brian Winterflood , chief executive of LSE market-maker and shareholder Winterflood Securities .
- - -
The fur flies : Animal rights activists hacked into French fashion house Chanel 's website and posted a protest against fur clothes only hours before the label presented its latest haute couture collection on Tuesday .
The protest , complete with gory pictures of animals slaughtered for their fur , called the furry fashion designs murderous .
" We closed the site this morning and we are reopening it this evening .
We are going to conduct an investigation , " a Chanel representative said .
After years of being politically incorrect , fur has been making a comeback on the catwalks as designers resume using it despite continued protests from animal rights activists .
Chanel 's show featured no fur at all , but British designer John Galliano highlighted the Christian Dior show on Monday with raccoon hats and fox fur stoles .




Linux Lovers Launch Large Lab

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
The industry 's first independent , nonprofit lab for developers who are adding business-oriented capabilities to Linux and Linux-based software opens for business Wednesday .
Backed by the support of 19 sponsor companies and more than $ 24 million in funding , the Open Source Development Lab is an 11,000-square-foot computing center located in Beaverton , Oregon , a high-tech district west of Portland .
It will provide Linux and open-source developers with access to high-end enterprise hardware and an open forum where they can build and test software for powerful servers and business computing environments .
The lab will be managed by an independent board and officers , as well as a full-time director and staff .
Ross Mauri , vice president of eServer development at IBM , was chosen to serve as president of the OSDL , and will oversee the board and its directors .
The first projects to take advantage of the lab will include a scalability project designed to enhance the Linux operating system to support 16 64-bit processors .
The second project is being conducted by Jabber an open-source instant-messaging company , and is focused on increasing Linux TCP/IP concurrent connection support from the current 20,000 to greater than 64,000 .
Under the lab 's operating policies , first announced in August , the OSDL does not create projects but supports and accelerates existing or new projects developed by the open-source community .
Under the lab 's charter , all projects will adhere to the open-source development model .
The lab houses several servers that interface with high-speed Internet communications links , creating a virtual lab that can be accessed by developers around the world .
Future open-source development lab locations around the globe will also be linked together with OSDL to provide a unified virtual development environment .
Computer Associates , Fujitsu and Hitachi joined original lab sponsors Hewlett-Packard , Intel , IBM and NEC in supporting the lab .
Miracle Linux , Mitsubishi and Covalent joined original members Caldera , Dell , Linuxcare , LynuxWorks , Red Hat , SGI , SuSE , TurboLinux and VA Linux as additional contributors and sponsors .
" The Open Source Development Lab provides tremendous resources that enable collaborative development of enterprise-class capabilities in Linux , " said Dr. Larry M. Augustin , president and CEO of VA Linux Systems .
" Projects supported by the lab will further accelerate the acceptance of open-source solutions in large-scale business environments . "




Armor : The Things They 'll Carry

Battlefield armor is making a comeback .
While long out of style for soldiers , the sight of armor from any era or culture can fire even the most pacifist civilian 's inner Mongol warrior .
The stormtroopers in Star Wars clattered about convincingly , and Sigourney Weaver in her kickboxing forklift in Aliens continues to spark fantasies .
The Knights of the Round Table conjure images of epic battles in the Crusades .
Now the past and the future are ready to deliver a mechanical offspring to the present .
The Department of Defense 's primary research and development organization -- the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency -- is soliciting proposals for a $ 50 million project to develop an " exoskeleton " for battlefield soldiers .
DARPA expects the first trials by 2005 , according to its site .
If the trials are successful , it will be the first appearance of battlefield armor since the 17th century .
The exoskeleton itself is a frame that fits over the body .
Designed to be smart and strong -- and , as DARPA said on its website , to provide " increased unit survivability and lethality " -- it is supposed to help its wearers move faster and farther with heavier loads and larger weaponry .
For hundreds of years , European armor got bigger and bulkier until modern weaponry and warfare made it more of a liability than an advantage .
The fully armored knight , a formidable presence on a medieval battlefield , eventually became a sitting duck for archers equipped with an ever-evolving array of crossbows .
Later , the development of firearms rendered any kind of armor useless .
It was n't until World War I that the protective helmet was revived to provide some protection from weather , shrapnel and the occasional glancing bullet .
Since then , keeping soldiers light , dry and comfortable has been more vital than loading them up with bulky armor that usually does n't work .
More recently , studies have found that soldiers tend to dump heavy equipment before marching long distances .
Currently , soldiers carry about a third of their body weight , one of the main issues for the exoskeleton 's designers .
DARPA spokeswoman Jan Walker said the exoskeleton 's power plant not only must run for at least a 24-hour stretch , it also must be light , as must be the material that forms the exoskeleton itself .
According to John Knowles , publisher of the defense industry newsletter , The Knowles Report , weight is a deciding factor in whether the exoskeleton ever sees the heat of battle .
" How realistic is it to put this stuff on this guy ? "
Knowles said . "
In war games , soldiers are constantly pulling this stuff off . "
Retired Army Col. Daniel Smith , chief of research at the Center for Defense Information , calls attention to the Army 's recently-adopted motto , " An army of one . "
The idea of individual , super-armored soldiers " seems almost a parody of that , " he said , adding that large numbers of soldiers will always be more effective than a few heavily-armed ones .
" I can n't see that it would be a cost effective use of resources , " he said .
DARPA has put together an extensive standard equipment list for the exoskeletons .
It includes a visor that expands the field of vision , as well as devices to provide information about battlefield conditions , coordinate other soldiers and decrease friendly-fire casualties .
Other possibilities are systems to monitor a soldier 's health and wireless communications networks .
Helping soldiers march , lift and leap to extraordinary heights and distances will be among the exoskeleton 's main attributes .
Knowles and Walker agree that the exoskeleton would have to be physically intuitive , that is , to know when a soldier is walking or running , lifting or bending .
One of the " technological challenges " posed by DARPA 's proposal is the development of haptic interfaces , which would allow the exoskeleton to respond to touch .
" We do n't want &#91;soldiers&#93 ; to have to press buttons , " Walker said .
There 's even a chance that exoskeletons -- with their ability to increase carrying loads -- could help integrate women into combat situations .
Knowles said that in terms of marksmanship and other combat skills , " Women have proven themselves very equal . "
The prevailing argument against women in combat is that most can n't meet the job 's physical requirements .
Exoskeletons , said Knowles , could " radically equalize that , " thus enabling a 130-pound woman to lift , carry and be as effective as a 180-pound man .
The most challenging aspect for the project will be taking it from blueprint to reality .
" There are a lot of people in the U.S. Army that want to ditch this enhancement program , " Knowles said . "
Any fighter in the field is trained not to trust technology . "
That is to say , things break .
Visors can block gun sights ; the exoskeleton can run out of fuel or become damaged , rendering it little more than a heavy frame .
Knowles says that most battlefield technology must be something that the average high school graduate can operate and repair .
DARPA 's Walker said it 's possible that only a few soldiers , maybe those who are carrying the heaviest gear , will wear them .
The exoskeleton may be used primarily by special forces , at least at first , Knowles said .
While infantry soldiers go into battle with plenty of support , special forces operatives are often on their own and could use the performance boost that powered body armor would provide .
In the end , the multitude of technologies within the system must not only be rugged and dependable , but work together to assist and protect the human inside without pinning him or her down .
Walker said the exoskeleton 's designers must produce a wearable technology with the range of movement to match the human body .
" That 's a significant challenge . "




A Bad Day for Microsoft Sites

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Microsoft technicians struggled since early Wednesday morning to return service to the company 's main websites : Microsoft.com , MSN.com , MSNBC.com , WindowsMedia.com , Encarta.com and Carpoint.com .
By mid-afternoon Wednesday , service was slowly being restored to Microsoft 's main websites , and users on the East Coast reported that they were able to access their Hotmail accounts and the support sections at Microsoft.com .
EST
Users on the West Coast were still experiencing problems .
Microsoft spokesman Adam Sohn said he did not think Hotmail service , which provides free , Web-based e-mail to more than 74 million users worldwide , was affected by the outage .
But Hotmail service was unavailable to many users on Wednesday morning , and was finally restored late Wednesday afternoon .
The company 's U.S. websites appeared to be the victim of a problem with DNS routing , the database that translates the names of URLs to the actual number addresses of the servers where the Web pages are stored .
A company spokesman confirmed that " some " Microsoft websites were down due to problems with Microsoft 's own Domain Name System servers , and said the company was working as quickly as it could to solve the problem .
DNS
Contradicting earlier assurances , however , Sohn now says Microsoft is not ruling out the possibility that its problems may stem from a denial-of-service attack by crackers , something the company had vehemently denied earlier on Wednesday .
" We 're not ruling anything out at this point .
There 's not enough data at this point , but the guys are working as quick as they can to get it diagnosed , treated and cured . "
Sohn said
Although originally confined to the U.S. and U.K. sites , Microsoft also confirmed that it heard from customers in Europe and Australia who were having problems accessing the company 's various websites as well .
The company said the problem , which began late Tuesday night , was not due to anyone outside the company accessing its servers , but is solely an internal difficulty .
A Microsoft network administrator working on the problems said that Wednesday was " the worst day of my professional life . "
He requested that his name not be used .
" DNS servers have outages , it 's a fact of life .
I 've been through it before and I 'd bet so has every network administrator of a major business , " he said . "
You always have to scramble to fix them .
You work like crazy while people bellow ' Why are n't we up yet ?
' But knowing that the eyes of millions are upon you and wondering why you are n't up yet either adds a very special and sharp edge to what we 're going through here today .
" We are also getting a lot of visits from people who are checking our sites just out of curiosity , which is slowing access to the parts of the network that are up and running .
So yes , I 'd like to tell the world we 're down , we 'll be up as soon as possible , we are horribly sorry , please put yourself in our shoes and have a little patience . "
Access to Microsoft 's websites was still possible for some users , however , by bypassing the domain name server and using this URL : http://207.46.230.218/ms.htm .
Hotmail can also be reached by selecting MSN along the left-hand rail under Web Services , and then Hotmail from MSN 's front page .
Since Microsoft 's U.S. pages were accessible via this method , it would indicate that Microsoft was not suffering from a cracker attack such as a denial of service -- which would have made the sites totally inaccessible -- but instead had internal problems with its own DNS routing .
These access failures were only the latest in a string of problems and apparent attacks that have plagued Microsoft 's network of websites all over the world during the last several days .
Security experts affirm that the most recent problem did n't appear to be the work of crackers , but vandals have hit two of Microsoft 's sites this week .
Microsoft 's New Zealand and Australian sites were altered by crackers who left behind testy text messages .
Evan Whiting , a network administrator for New York State , said he believed the problem originates within Microsoft .




U.S. to Clone Brit Policy ?

Researchers in Britain are now allowed to clone human embryos .
But do n't expect that to be a sign of things to come in the United States .
The landmark decision , finalized on Tuesday by the House of Lords , is hailed by some scientists as a step forward in the fight against debilitating disease .
Researchers say cloned embryos could mean faster treatments for Parkinson 's disease , spinal cord injury , heart disease and any other condition involving the death of cells .
But not everyone applauds embryonic cloning , and it 's doubtful the Bush administration would ever approve of such a thing .
The prospect of cloning human embryos raises the dander of everyone from the religious right to scientists .
Many detractors see the procedure as essentially creating human beings , then killing them .
What 's clear is that Tuesday 's decision gives Britain a leg up in medical research .
But that may not be a persuasive argument to sway the new U.S. president .
" While one might argue that the U.K. has positioned itself to have a competitive edge in this research , I am not convinced that this would be sufficient for the Bush administration to take a position that would alienate so many of its own supporters and even some of the supporters of the Clinton administration and Gore-Lieberman ticket , " said Dr. R. Alta Charo , a professor of law and medical ethics at the University of Wisconsin in Madison , and member of the National Bioethics Advisory Committee .
Bush has already promised to re-evaluate Clinton 's decision last year to allow federally funded embryonic stem cell research , with the condition that government money is not used in the creation or destruction of the cells .
A glimmer of hope for stem cell research advocates is the fact that Bush has nominated Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson as director of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services .
Thompson is anti-abortion , but praised the University of Wisconsin biologist who isolated the first embryonic stem cells in 1998 .
In fact , he held a party to celebrate it .
Stem cell research is a step before embryonic cloning .
There 's no indication it will be approved in the U.S. when basic stem cell research is still tenuous , and experts think U.S. scientists are missing out .
Mark Frankel , director of the program on scientific freedom , responsibility and law at the American Association for the Advancement of Science lamented that the U.S. will remain on the outskirts of the most exciting stem cell research .
" It puts the British in a position to make research gains in understanding because of a more permissive policy than in the U.S. , " he said .
Stem cells can grow , or differentiate , into every type of cell in the body , and many scientists say their powers of renewal are the only hope for people with certain debilitating diseases and injuries .
Stem cells taken from embryos have been shown to be the most powerful kind .
Embryonic stem cells are most often collected following in vitro fertilization , a technique that produces thousands of extra embryonic cells that are otherwise discarded .
A company called Geron in Menlo Park , California already has heart cells that beat in a petri dish .
GERN
They were grown from stem cells , and company researchers hope they can one day be injected into a damaged heart to repair it .
Taking the concept a step further , if scientists can first clone an embryo from someone with , say , heart disease , they can create a stem cell treatment that 's a perfect DNA match , with no worries of the patient rejecting the cells .
British parliament members came to the decision after a seven-hour debate .
The legislation includes a mandate that any clone will be allowed to live no longer than 14 days .
" Even though I do n't welcome the approval of embryonic cloning , I think they have blocked one of the worst consequences of it which is making cloned people , " said Stuart Newman , a professor of cell biology and anatomy at the New York Medical College in Valhalla , New York .
The 14-day mandate is no comfort at all , however , to anti-abortion activists like Father Howard , who believe that human life begins the moment an embryo is formed .
" It 's wrong for them to create the clone and then it 's wrong for them to kill a clone , " said Father Joseph Howard , director of the American Life League Bioethics Advisory Commission . "
It 's immoral .
Once it is created it should be protected to live , so killing it is an equally grave offense . "
Newman does worry , however , what precedent this sets for embryonic cloning in other countries that might not make the same stipulation .
It sets up the potential for bringing human clones to term , Newman said .
" That is potentially troublesome , " he said .
Then there 's the Human Cloning Foundation , which as the name suggests , advocates human cloning .
The group applauds any step that brings research closer to achieving human cloning .
" We are thrilled because what they 've passed is going to perfect the central technique of cloning , which is nuclear transfer , " said Randolfe Wicker , the founder of the Human Cloning Foundation as well as the Clone Rights United Front .
Nuclear transfer is taking the nucleus of a regular cell and placing it inside an egg from which the nucleus has been removed .
Dolly the cloned sheep was made that way , as are myriad cloned mammals like cows , mice , pigs and goats .
Wicker hopes the decision in Britain will temper Bush 's view , and the anti-abortionist ripple effect on stem cell research .
" These people could literally put America behind in medicine , " he said . "
Any scientist will say : ' You 're not even allowing us to play in the caboose and the British are in the engine !
' "




How , Why Microsoft Went Down

Microsoft 's websites were offline for up to 23 hours -- the most dramatic snafu to date on the Internet -- because of an equipment misconfiguration , the company says .
A series of problems centering around its collection of routers in Canyon Park , Wash. -- near the company 's headquarters -- is what the company blames for knocking out dozens of Microsoft properties including hotmail.com and msn.com , frustrating millions of users and providing acute embarrassment for a company that is offering the promise of unprecedented reliability in marketing its Internet products .
MSFT
" We screwed up .
night at around 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday
Pacific time we made a configuration change to the routers on the DNS network , " spokesman Adam Sohn said Wednesday evening .
The company said in a statement that it took nearly a day to determine what was wrong and undo the changes .
Microsoft 's sites -- including microsoft.com , slate.com , expedia.com and msnbc.com -- started to work properly again at about 4:30 p.m. , PST , Wednesday .
Media Metrix reports that the combined properties , not including news sites , received 54 million unique visitors in December .
Technical experts blame Microsoft 's design decisions for exacerbating its woes .
All the affected Microsoft sites rely on just four Windows servers , located in the company 's Canyon Park data center , to forward users to the right destination via the Domain Name System .
DNS
Because all four DNS servers -- which translate names like microsoft.com into its 207.46.230.218 numeric address -- share the same routers , all are vulnerable to hardware glitches or a technician 's error .
" Sure , small organizations have their DNS servers located together and there 's nothing wrong with that , " says Rich Kulawiec , a consultant with 20 years of networking experience . "
But national or global organizations should , as standard operating procedure , have their DNS servers on different networks served by different ISPs and running on different operating systems -- Solaris and FreeBSD , or Linux and HPUX -- so as to minimize the threats for DoS attacks , known OS vulnerabilities , and connectivity issues . "
Some companies already offer supra-reliable DNS to nervous customers worried about downtime .
Nominium , a Redwood City , Calif. startup , boasts it has many collections of DNS servers , each with at least two different hardware and OS platforms , and each connected to two different ISPs .
" If an entire site fails , the other sites around the world would continue to serve customers ' domain data , " the company 's white paper says .
Nominium
Ultradns.com offers a similar service .
" The problem that Microsoft is experiencing once again illustrates the fact that even if you are a technically competent organization , your business is at significant risk without a highly reliable DNS infrastructure , " said William Thomas , president and CEO of Nominum , Inc.
Making matters worse for Microsoft 's frantic technicians was that they were racing against time : For efficiency 's sake , ISPs , corporations and universities keep caches of the numeric IP addresses of frequently-visited sites .
But caches began to expire at different times across the Internet yesterday , which meant Microsoft 's properties began to fade , gradually , from public view .
" Anybody who knew anything about this and could be helpful dropped everything , " Microsoft 's Sohn said .
Sohn said : " We spent a lot of time diagnosing every single scenario we could think of : whether it was a denial of service attack , whether it was an .
equipment malfunction
We had little mini-teams off triaging all of this stuff and eliminating scenarios as fast as we could . "




Startups Not Out of Ideas

LA QUINTA , California -- Despite dot-coms dropping like flies , several brave entrepreneurs pitched their ideas for the " next big thing " to venture capitalists at Upside magazine 's Showcase 2001 .
In a reflection of the times , only one of the 82 companies exhibiting at the show had a name beginning with a lowercase ' e ' and ending with a ' .com , ' eWanted , a buy/sell service similar to eBay .
The show , designed to be a more intimate introduction of new products to the press and VCs than a trade show , featured a mixture of items for consumers and businesses . "
This show is all about launching new and interesting products that can n't get easily noticed at Comdex , " said Upside executive editor Jesse Berst , in his first year heading up the show .
Among the more interesting ideas was Uplister , a community for swapping user-made lists of MP3 files .
The idea behind Uplister is this : People make their mix list of MP3 songs for whatever moves them -- exercise , depression , romance or user-defined lists , like I Work for Satan .
Then people can share their lists , which are hyperlinked to more information on the artists as well as links to buy the CD .
Where you get the MP3s is between you and your conscience .
Napster may be sued into oblivion , " but Napster as an idea will n't go away , " said Rob Reid , CEO of online music site Listen.com .
For phone fanatics with home , business , mobile phones or pagers , SimulRing enables all lines to ring at once .
A user is assigned a single phone number , which will ring up to six of the customer 's pre-defined phone numbers at the same time -- figuring that he or she is liable to be at one of the numbers .
If the customer somehow manages to dodge six bullets , the call goes to the voice mail box of his or her choice .
The selling point is that users can put one number on their business cards , not six , and if they change cellular service or move , they simply make the change to the SimulRing service .
ArialPhone is offering a one-ounce ear piece phone that uses voice recognition technology to input phone numbers or dial by name .
The ArialPhone is inspired by the ear piece worn by Lieutenant Uhuru in Star Trek , and will cost $ 399 when it ships in May .
The whole phone is in the ear piece , which is approximately the size of Uhuru 's original prop .
Its logo looks similar to that of Star Trek 's Star Fleet , which may not go over well with Paramount Pictures .
During their demonstration , ArialPhone 's team called Berst 's SimulRing number , which to his annoyance was shown on the overhead screen to the audience .
AlphaGrip pitched a keyboard for the Nintendo generation which is accustomed to handheld controllers .
It looks like a fatter version of a Nintendo or PlayStation controller , but with a batch of buttons on both sides .
The company estimates people will be able to type at up to 50 words per minute , after a rather hefty learning curve .
AlphaGrip does n't have an OEM partner , but expects the unit will sell for under $ 100 when it hits the market .
Presenters varied from the cool and collected to the very nervous as they received feedback from the audience . "
Between the VCs and all the public relations people , have a lot of opportunities to get some advice , " said Amy Wohl , president of Wohl Associates , a market research and analysis firm in Narberth , Pennsylvania .
demonstrators
Wohl admits the first time she saw TiVo 's digital video recorder demonstrated she did n't get it , mostly due to the presentation .
But Wohl saw some future winners at Showcase . "
I see a lot of stuff that , with fine tuning , could be very successful . "




Microsoft 's Web Still Tangled

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
Just when Microsoft thought its Web server woes were resolved , they returned .
After Wednesday 's day-long failure that blocked users from its sites around the world , Microsoft released a statement indicating that it had fixed the problem .
But the software giant 's servers began once again to experience intermittent failures in the U.S. around midday Thursday , and shortly after failed completely for the second time , once again blocking access to Microsoft 's primary website .
Meanwhile , Microsoft 's UK website returned messages saying , " Server too busy -- The request can not be processed at this time .
The amount of traffic exceeds the Web site 's configured capacity , " before trying to redirect visitors to the company 's main site .
" If they had done their job right in the first place , it simply would not have mattered that if a router went down , because there would have been no single point of failure in their DNS setup , " said Greg Keefe , the owner and operator of DNS service provider HammerNode.com .
" But even the problem with their router is a sorry excuse for two days of DNS server problems .
They should have backup equipment ready to go at a moment 's notice for this type of emergency , " said Keefe .
Attempts to contact Microsoft 's servers by pinging them showed that they had again ceased to resolve Microsoft 's domain names , or the connection stalls and times out before information can be retrieved , another indicator of DNS routing problems .
Pinging is a network communication that allows remote verification of the status of a server .
" I work with DNS on a near constant basis , and I can say that Microsoft 's DNS configuration equals the membership dues for the sub-fifty IQ club .
They operate four DNS servers for their domain , which sounds good -- but when those servers are all within the same building , or on the same network , as it appears with Microsoft 's case , then the advantages disappear , " Keefe said .
" A move this dumb from a company touting reliability makes me wonder how they ever got to where they 're at . "
Adam Sohn , spokesman for Microsoft , said he was unaware of any new troubles Thursday with Microsoft sites .
Others speculated on the effect two days of failures would have on the companies " .net " software services initiative , the company 's newest pet project .
Microsoft is redesigning Windows software so that it can be delivered over networks on demand along with data instead of requiring it to be installed on computers .
" Can you imagine the problems this would cause if you were having your applications served up from a MS server as they are proposing in their.net plan .
It 's amazing the one single company 's inability to manage their own network could have such an effect on so many computer users , and this is without all their .net offers , " said one Wired News reader who wished to remain anonymous , via e-mail .
Microsoft said yesterday that its problems began when a set of four DNS servers operated by the company failed late Tuesday , leaving many Microsoft sites inaccessible to the public .
DNS servers are analogous to an Internet business phone book : They translate computer names into the numbers that are needed to actually access the computer .
Domain Name System
When DNS servers for a company become unavailable for any reason , it becomes difficult or impossible for most people to reach that company 's Web servers or other systems .
an attack or a system failure
This is what happened at Microsoft : A router problem made its DNS servers inaccessible .
The four DNS servers that Microsoft operates are listed as being on the same subnet , or within a grouping of IP addresses .
This usually means they are in close proximity on the network and often close physically as well .
sometimes in the same building
The servers are located in Canyon Park , Washington .
" This is not a robust design .
Whether the system was hacked or suffered a systemic failure , Microsoft will likely be reviewing its DNS architecture in the near future , " said Ric Steinberger , technical director for news website Security Portal .
Open source programmers , who are often critical of Microsoft , cheerfully noted that without the company 's insistence on strictly controlling information about its inner workings and products , problems like this would n't have as devastating an impact on users .
" I could n't even imagine this happening to Linux developer .
The sites we use to develop are mirrored in so many places that if one site is down , there are often so many mirrors to the site available that you have trouble selecting which one to use , " e-mailed another Wired News reader .
" Under the .net plan MS is developing , if the server supplying applications to a company was to go down , every single person in the company would be forced to stop using their computers while the problem was rectified . "




One Giant Leap for Reality TV

Proving that the space race did n't end with the Cold War , television production companies in the United States , Great Britain and Germany are scrambling to be the first to launch winning reality-TV contestants into orbit .
Indeed , next-generation reality TV is starting to look a bit like Star Trek : The Next Generation .
Networks are announcing new programs that promise to take the popular primetime format one step beyond .
Unfortunately , a few logistical details -- such as how , exactly , the contestants will be transported into space and where to put them when they get there -- may make these planned programs more fantasy than reality for now .
You 'll have to be satisfied with the likes of Temptation Island and The Mole for the time being .
But just maybe -- if you wish upon a star -- we 'll soon be blasting guys like Rich Hatch off our planet .
NBC has the first-mover advantage with this new twist on the genre .
It said in September it was teaming up with the producers of last year 's hit series Survivor to launch a civilian-in-space contest that would air in fall 2001 .
This new " reality adventure series " promised to stick with Survivor 's Darwinian process-of-elimination premise -- except this time , the stakes would be sky-high .
Destination Mir would follow 12 or 13 American civilians through several weeks of grueling physical and psychological trials at a Russian cosmonaut training camp near Moscow .
Each week , one unlucky contestant would be sent home .
The last remaining contestant would win a trip to space , traveling in style aboard a Soyuz spacecraft bound for the Mir Space Station .
NBC planned to cover the winner 's journey and space station visit , as well as his or her eventual return to Earth .
Of course , there 's a glitch .
While Destination Mir has all the makings of a millennial blockbuster , it 's lacking one critical element : a destination .
A month after NBC announced a call for contestants , the Russians said they might retire the nearly 14-year-old space station , which had become too expensive to maintain .
The Russian Aviation and Space Agency and Mir 's operator , RKK Energia , set March 6 , 2001 , as the day for administering a " killing pulse " to the trusty space pad , putting it out of orbit once and for all .
According to MSNBC , the producers of Destination Mir are now setting their sights on the International Space Station as an alternate landing strip .
But the ISS will n't be finished until at least 2006 , and NASA said it will n't consider having TV visitors until then .
Both NBC and the Mark Burnett Production company would n't comment on Destination Mir , saying that production of the series is not yet under way .
When announcing the show last September , however , NBCi president Edmond Sancti said , " We are excited to provide our members a unique chance to compete to take the ultimate trip to space and to offer TV viewers and Web users a compelling online destination to participate in this fascinating reality drama . "
The network launched an Internet portal to tie in with the planned series , where it continues to pre-register potential contestants .
Germany may not have been a strong contender in the last space race , but German TV does n't intend to be left behind in this one .
In December , the German television production company Brainpool TV announced it had already invested $ 7.5 million in a new series called Space Commander .
Seven winners , one from each season , will be rocketed to the International Space Station between 2002 and 2008 .




PlayStation No Fun for Sony

Sony said on Thursday its profits sagged in the last three months of 2000 , hit by production glitches on its flagship PlayStation 2 game console and lingering strength in the yen .
The results were slightly better than expectations , but are unlikely to lift a cloud cast over the firm 's prospects by a slowing U.S. economy and the doubtful health of a gaming division on which it has staked so much .
Its operating profit fell 11 percent to 146.47 billion yen in the crucial October-December period , which provides more than 50 percent of total profits , compared to expectations of a 15 to 27 percent fall .
$ 1.24 billion
" The profit decline came largely from the weak game sector , which will continue to be a drag for a while , " said Tsubasa Securities analyst Yukihiro Yoshida . "
I see more downward risk for the firm 's earnings for the full year and the game sector 's performance will continue to be the focus . "
Since the March launch of the latest version of the smash-hit PlayStation , Sony 's shares have fallen about 45 percent to trade around 8,700 yen , hitting a 16-month low of 7,510 yen on December 22 .
The stock closed down 0.82 percent at 8,510 yen on Thursday before the earnings release .
Sony says the PlayStation 's problems have now been ironed out , although analysts worry initial production delays mean it failed to maximize overseas sales during the crucial Christmas period , leaving it vulnerable to competition from rival consoles .
SNE
- - -
Not just fast food anymore : Fast food giant McDonald 's and computer maker Compaq Computer said they have developed a computer system so that kids can play the latest video games in McDonald 's restaurants .
CPQ
Already known for Happy Meals and Playland playgrounds , McDonald 's restaurants will now have the option to install " interactive kiosks " called " McMagination . "
Kiosks are in the shape of the chain 's Ronald McDonald and Grimace characters , and customers can play up to 12 different video games .
McDonald 's has tested the video games in a number of its U.S. restaurants and found they help draw business from parents and children at off-peak times during the day .
- - -
In the nick of time : Internet retailer Letsbuyit.com on Thursday stepped back from the verge of bankruptcy after it received 50 million euros in emergency funding and a new financial backer .
$ 46.21 million
Shares in Letsbuyit.com rocketed at the market open on the news , gaining over 90 percent in the first few trades .
The company said it had received four million euros in funding commitments and that venture capital firm Kimvestor AG had formally stated its intent to invest a further 50 million euros .
" We believe in the business concept and success of Letsbuyit.com , " said Kimvestor chief executive Kim Schmitz in a statement .
Letsbuyit sought creditor protection after cash flow problems brought it to the verge of collapse in December .
At a hearing last week , courts had given Letsbuyit.com until Thursday to find the four million euros to cover administrative costs .
- - -
Que pasa ?
Nada mas : Quepasa.com , a website aimed at Hispanics in the United States , said its stock had been delisted from the Nasdaq , a few weeks after the company 's board approved a plan to liquidate .
Quepasa said in a release that it intends to have its common stock traded on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board shortly .
The Nasdaq halted trading in Quepasa stock on Dec. 27 following the liquidation announcement .
- - -
Europe 's data is showing : Despite tighter regulations , European websites are no better at protecting the privacy of visitors than their U.S. counterparts , according a study released on Thursday .
Two-thirds of websites in the United States and Europe surveyed by the advocacy group Consumers International collected personal data from visitors , but only a few of those gave visitors the option of limiting how that information was used .
Concerns about the use of personal data , such as names , birth dates and addresses for marketing purposes have increased in recent years with the growth of the Internet .
Unlike the United States , the European Union places tight restrictions on how businesses may use such data .
But the study found that the most popular U.S. websites were more likely to give users a choice about being added to their mailing list than leading European sites .
- - -
Welcome aboard : Douglas A. McIntyre , CEO of On2.com , has been appointed to TheStreet.com's(TSCM) board of directors .
ONT
McIntyre has more than 19 years of technology and media experience .
Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report .




OS Has a Face You Can Love

People frustrated by the way Windows uses windows or the Mac 's menus may soon have an alternative operating system that lets you custom-build the interface .
The Athena operating system , under development for almost two years by Rocklyte has the ambitious goal of creating an operating system that will run on any device and look like whatever you want .
The first beta is out for Athena , which will be a customizable object-oriented interface that can sit on top of any operating system 's kernel including Linux , Mac OS and Windows .
The modular design enables developers to write one source code base that can be run on all three platforms without rewriting the code .
Athena is not meant as a replacement for Windows Explorer or for GNOME/KDE on Linux .
Instead , it can be used with them , according to Paul Manias , the primary developer and founder of Rocklyte .
" Athena does run GNOME and KDE applications , " he said . "
In the future you may also see Athena applications running within KDE , GNOME and other window managers .
For this reason I expect you 'll see more of a synergy rather than direct competition . "
When completed , Athena will be a full blown object-based operating system , from kernel to the graphical user interface , which allows for near-total customization of the operating system 's behavior , look and feel .
GUI
Athena allows its users to alter the system from small details to the whole interface through Athena 's Dynamic Markup Language , a derivative of eXtensible Markup Language .
DML
XML
DML scripts are used to define and construct the interface of the operating system and can be integrated into applications .
Developers can completely restructure the look and feel of the OS for each application .
It is similar to the Themes motif on the Netscape 6 browser but now applied to the OS and applications .
Applications written to Athena 's Pandora engine are portable because the layer can connect the OS kernel with any GUI .
The interface is entirely customizable because everything in the OS interface is an object .
Athena can be run on PCs as well as embedded devices such as Internet appliances and kiosks .




Microsoft Crashes : The Fallout

Reader 's advisory : Wired News has been unable to confirm some sources for a number of stories written by this author .
If you have any information about sources cited in this article , please send an e-mail to sourceinfo&#91;AT&#93;wired.com .
One day after it claimed human error shut down all of its websites , Microsoft admitted that a second shut-down was the result of a denial of service attack .
The news left many wondering whether both attacks were actually the work of crackers , or whether Microsoft might have chosen to cover up a second internal error by shifting the blame outside of the company .
But sources close to the company insist that Microsoft had indeed been the victim of a denial of service attack on Thursday .
It also appears that Microsoft has now handed over the management of its DNS routing systems to Akamai , and may be running Linux on at least one of its servers .
A network technician at Microsoft , who declined to be identified , dismissed reports that indicated that the media 's extensive coverage of the first outage gave crackers the inside information that they needed to bring down Microsoft 's network on Thursday .
" I 'd love to blame it on you people in the media , but the truth is that everything that was written about the configuration of our network was pulled from easily and always-accessible records .
Anyone who looked up Microsoft 's domain name registration records , an easy thing to do , could have figured out how we were set up . "
The technician believed that the DoS attack was probably due to the attackers assuming that Microsoft already had its hands full .
" I believe that maybe someone saw our network as a wounded antelope and attacked .
And they were right .
Everything was so messed up that although we saw the attack coming we were n't sure if it was a flood of visitors who wanted to check their Hotmail accounts , or a DoS attack .
We were , for a few moments , like the proverbial deer caught in the headlights . "
Only after the problem had been fixed , the technician said , did the sick jokes start circulating .
" The joke of the day over here was , ' Did the janitor shut off the same light switch in the closet again ?
' and ' Did the temp trip over that cord again ?
worker
' It was either laugh or puke .
Some of us did both . "
Although some reports indicated that Microsoft engineers had said that the attacks " appeared to be relatively sophisticated , judging by the choice of such vulnerable targets , " many are scoffing at the idea that DoS is a tool that a skilled cracker would use .
DoS attacks are considered to be the province of " script kiddies , " relatively unskilled youngsters who have just enough technical knowledge to follow instructions on how to attack networks .
No self-respecting real cracker would ever consider doing a DoS , " said " Tepes , " who defines himself as a " cracker , not a hacker ... and damned proud of it . "
DoS attacks are simple to implement .
Many websites contain step-by-step instructions on where to download the tools and how to launch the attack . "
And real crackers do n't use cookbooks , " Tepes said . "
We explore new territory and make our own maps . "
Microsoft falling to a few unskilled kids struck Tepes as " funny , but not remarkable . "
" I do find it interesting that every techie in Redmond , home of the bergeeks , had to be hunched over those servers , looking at what was happening on that network .
So even though they are saying someone took advantage of them when they were down and out , in truth it should have been harder to get in when they were all on the alert .
" Sort of like showing up in the afternoon to rob a bank when the feds are still there investigating that morning 's robbery . "
But most security experts agree that the network configuration problems that were revealed by Microsoft 's original blackout are far more serious than the company 's later fall to DoS attacks .
Microsoft itself seems to agree with those sentiments , and has evidently asked for help in managing its DNS records .
DNS servers are analogous to an Internet business phone book : They translate computer names into the numbers that are needed to actually access the computer .
domain name system
Greg Keefe , the owner and operator of DNS service provider HammerNode.com , noted that the company had " frantically off-loaded the management of their DNS to another company today . "
" I simply can n't respect that move coming from a Fortune 100 company that develops and sells DNS software as part of their core business , " added Keefe .
Keefe also had his doubts about whether Microsoft definitely suffered from a DoS attack .
" When DNS service returns after an extended outage , a higher-than-normal load should be expected , because cached DNS information has expired around the Internet .
Since it 's trivial to masquerade the originating IP address of most DNS queries , Microsoft could easily hide behind the veil of a ' possible ' DoS attack . "
the nature of UDP/IP packets
Matt Power of the BindView Corporation 's RAZOR Team also noted Microsoft 's outsourcing of its DNS .
" The central ' .COM ' DNS servers now list a number of servers in the akadns.com domain as authoritative DNS servers for Microsoft 's domain names , such as microsoft.com , msnbc.com and passport.com .
The akadns.com domain belongs to Akamai Technologies , " Power said .
Power and Keefe both interpreted this to mean that Microsoft has , at least in part , outsourced its DNS service to Akamai .
Power also noted that his research indicated that the " z*.msft.akadns.com " servers are using a " networking implementation very similar to that of Linux . "




Sports Threat : Gene Transferring

LONDON -- In today 's high-tech world of doping , the drug cheaters usually are a step ahead of the drug testers .
This time , the testers are determined to seize the upper hand .
World doping experts and Olympic officials are joining forces with the scientific community to stay ahead in what many believe will be the next frontier in performance-enhancing genetic manipulation .
A special conference on the potential misuse of gene therapy by athletes will be held Sept. 23-26 in Cold Spring Harbor , N.Y. , officials told the Associated Press Thursday .
Some 30-35 sports administrators , drug testers , geneticists and other experts will meet in private workshops to consider ways of heading off the use of gene transfers for improving strength and endurance .
The initiative is spearheaded by the World Anti-Doping Agency , a two-year-old body coordinating a global campaign against the use of banned drugs in sports .
The International Olympic Committee , which also has been monitoring developments in gene therapy , had planned to organize its own conference on the issue this year .
But with WADA taking the lead , the IOC is looking to merge efforts with the doping agency .
" The geneticist does n't know a lot about the world of athletics , and the world of athletics does n't know what is happening in the gene therapy world , " said Theodore Friedmann , one of the world 's leading experts on gene therapy and a member of WADA 's medical research committee .
" This is an opportunity for both camps to bring themselves up to date on the state of the art and what the potential dangers are in athletics through genetic manipulation . "
Major advancements have been made recently in the field of gene therapy , which involves injecting the body with new genes that produce therapeutic proteins meant to block disease .
The technique still in the experimental stage is designed to treat , cure or prevent disease .
But , in this win-at-all-cost age , authorities fear some people will try to use gene therapy to secure a competitive edge on the playing field .
" There was always a concern that techniques for introducing genes to correct disease might also be techniques to manipulate other human traits , " said Friedmann , director of the gene therapy program at the University of California-San Diego . "
It finally dawned on a lot of people that the technique was maturing rapidly that might allow the introduction of genes to enhance athletic ability . "
Two of the most commonly used banned drugs in sport are erythropoietin , or EPO , a synthetic hormone that stimulates production of oxygen-carrying red blood cells , and human growth hormone , which builds muscle and strength .
A combined blood-urine test for EPO was introduced at the Sydney Olympics , but researchers are still trying to develop a foolproof standalone test .
No test for growth hormone has yet been approved .
Experts believe EPO and growth hormone could be targets for gene-therapy misuse .
Athletes and their doctors have exploited medicine and science to improve performance and beat drug testing for decades .
So officials assume that cheaters are at work trying to take advantage of genetic research .
" I am pretty sure that just as the case with steroids and other therapies when they came along , there are groups looking for new ways to enhance performance , " said Arne Ljungqvist , track 's doping chief and head of WADA 's research panel . "
We can n't be naive .
We must be realistic . "
The IOC and other sports bodies have often been criticized for being slow or reluctant to fight doping .
By moving now on gene therapy , Olympic officials believe they can gain the advantage .
" We have to be ahead for once , rather than trying to catch up when it 's too late , " Ljungqvist said .
Johann Olav Koss , the former Norwegian speed skater who serves as an athletes ' representative on the IOC and WADA , said there is no time to lose .
" We should be very aggressive to prevent any form of genetic enhancement , " he said . "
We have to do this in the early stages before any athlete starts using this .
We need to act quickly to define the rules .
I do n't think sport has anything to benefit from having genetically enhanced athletes .
This is not only an issue for sport , it 's a broad ethical issue for human beings . "
IOC medical director Patrick Schamasch said the sports movement must collaborate with pharmaceutical manufacturers involved in gene therapy to stay ahead of the game .
" As soon as a new technology is introduced , I 'm sure people think about how it can be misused , " he said . "
I 'm confident there are people working on this bad aspect . "
As modern science develops , including the possibility of human cloning , virtually nothing can be ruled out in the race to produce the perfect athlete .
" This is what was described by Orwell , " Schamasch said . "
We really are now in the age of Big Brother . "




Researchers Harvest Rice Genome

WASHINGTON -- Two biotech companies announced Friday that they have mapped the entire rice genome , a breakthrough that could lead to improved varieties of rice and other grains .
Rice , the most widely consumed food crop in the world , is the first plant that is important to agriculture to have its genome sequenced .
Its genetic model is relatively simple and could serve as a model for scientists working on crops that are more complex , such as corn and wheat .
" Identifying not only the genes but their functions and how they work will provide researchers with crucial new knowledge to improve food crops , " said Steve Briggs , president of the Torrey Mesa Research Institute , a subsidiary of Switzerland-based Syngenta .
The project was a joint effort of Syngenta and Myriad Genetics Inc. of Salt Lake City .
SYT
MYGN
The project is likely to raise questions about corporate control of genetic material , particularly since it involves a crop that is vital to many poor nations .
The companies said they will make the rice data available to other researchers through research contracts .
In a statement , Syngenta said it would work with research institutes in developing countries to help subsistence farmers .
The company 's policy is to provide data , such as the genetic code for rice , without royalties or fees when used for research benefiting poor farmers .
An international effort , based in Japan , is also under way to map the rice genome and is being aided by research provided by St. Louis-based Monsanto .
Last year , scientists completed the mapping of another plant , arabidopsis , but the rice genome is three times larger and is more similar to other grains that are used for food and animal feed .
Rice plants have 12 chromosomes containing about 50,000 different genes , which are in turn made up of about 430 million base pairs of DNA .
By comparison , corn has 3 billion base pairs .
Syngenta was formed last year by the merger of Novartis Agribusiness and Zeneca Agrochemicals .




TV Towers Power Netcasts

LAS VEGAS -- The broadband revolution that promised to reshape home entertainment has been little more than an act of civil disobedience so far .
At the National Association of Television Programming Executives conference , datacasting company iBlast showed off an alternative broadcast technology using the television airwaves .
Rich media companies have been slowed to a halt , waiting for cable modems and DSL to deliver a mass audience of high-speed users .
According to Media Metrix , even the top destination sites are n't drawing enough numbers to create viable business models .
Despite backing from big Hollywood names , Pop.com , Pseudo.com , and the Digital Entertainment Network could n't survive long enough to wait for faster connections .
Still around , but struggling Entertaindom.com draws just 800,000 unique visitors a month and Icebox.com less than 500,000 visitors .
" Remember , cable channels built up slowly , " said Gary Adelson , a partner in the EastWest Venture Group . "
We 're all still waiting for broadband .
It 's not distributed nearly as quickly as we thought . "
Adelson said his company largely has avoided funding content companies because of the bandwidth crunch .
There are no clear signs as to what the critical mass for broadband penetration will have to be to create those models , Adelson said .
But when it is reached , changes will occur rapidly .
" You 'll see studios pouring a lot of money into the Internet when that happens , " he said .
Distribution company iBlast is providing an alternate route around the broadband traffic jam by using television towers to deliver content using the extra bandwidth in the TV spectrum .
Each television broadcaster is given 19.4 MB per second in bandwidth , although stations do n't fill the entire space .
That allows iBlast an average of 4 MB of bandwidth which it can use to deliver content .
" The Internet has changed from an interactive system to a broadcast system , " said iBlast chief technology officer Oliver Luckett .
The television signal serves that purpose well since the distribution network is already in place , and can penetrate walls . "
the signal
The company has signed up 246 affiliate stations to participate in its program to deliver rich media files to PCs , game consoles , personal video recorders and other receiving devices over the airwaves .
A beta test is running with stations in Los Angeles , San Jose , Calif. , San Diego , Phoenix , and Orlando , Fla.
The company has signed exclusive deals with 19 major media companies who own their own towers , including Tribune , Gannett , and Cox .
" The biggest thing about this technology is that people realize they can take a network , hook it to a set-top box , and create a whole new type of entertainment network for viewers , " Luckett said .




Pros , Cons of Modified Food

WASHINGTON -- No long-term health effects have been detected from the use of transgenic crops and genetically modified foods , says a report by the scientific council of the American Medical Association .
The report also concludes that bioengineered foods are " substantially equivalent " to their conventional counterparts .
The report concludes that the risk of gene transfer from engineered foods to animals or to human cells " is generally acknowledged to be negligible , but one that can not be completely discounted . "
The AMA council set out to review the technology used to produce transgenic crops , the current regulatory framework for managing them , possible human health effects and potential environmental impact .
More than 40 varieties of transgenic crops have been approved for use in the United States during the last decade , most of them genetically modified to produce a pesticide called Bacillus thuringiensis , or Bt .
The Bt toxin attacks pests like the European corn borer , but laboratory studies suggest it may also be dangerous to the larvae of the monarch butterfly and other butterflies and moths .
The AMA report concludes that the harmful effects of plants containing Bt on species like the monarch butterfly have not been observed in the field . "
Nevertheless , these and other possible environmental effects remain areas of concern , " the report says .
One fear is the possibility that insects and disease pathogens will develop resistance to the pesticides carried by engineered plants , like Bt crops .
This has not occurred yet , the researchers said , but remains a risk .
" Genetic modification of plants could potentially lead to detrimental consequences to the environment , " the report warns . "
Therefore , a broad-based plan to study environmental issues should be instituted . "
To prepare its own report , he AMA reviewed 11 other papers on genetically modified crops compiled and issued during the past two years .
Researchers also consulted dozens of individual scientific articles .
" Crops and foods produced using recombinant DNA techniques have been available for fewer than 10 years and no long-term effects have been detected to date , " the council reported . "
These foods are substantially equivalent to their conventional counterparts . "
Critics of GM crops warn that in transferring traits from one plant to another , biotechnology could transfer allergy risks as well .
Someone with a peanut allergy could have a fatal reaction to a plant engineered to carry a peanut protein , doctors warn .
The AMA council said that risk is real , but not limited to GM crops .
" Genetic engineering is capable of introducing allergens into recipient plants , but the overall risks of introducing an allergen into the food supply are believed to be similar to , or less than , that associated with conventional breeding methods , " the council concluded .
Problems could also arise if biotech companies transferred traits from antibiotics into crops , a practice the AMA report said " should be avoided if possible . "
The AMA recommended that federal regulatory oversight of agricultural biotechnology continue to be science based and guided by the characteristics of the plant , its intended use and the environment into which it is to be introduced .
The methods used to produce a crop -- whether biotechnology or conventional means -- should not guide regulatory decision , the AMA said .
The AMA concluded that special labeling of genetically modified foods is not scientifically justified , and that voluntary labeling , like that proposed by the Food and Drug Administration , is without value unless it is accompanied by consumer education .
But the group recommends the development of a standardized system for assessing the safety of genetically modified foods .
Other recommendations include the development of additional techniques for detecting and assessing unintended effects of GM crops , and continued research to detect any substantial changes in the nutrient content or possibility toxicity of GM foods .
Priority should be given to basic research in food allergies to help develop improved methods for identifying potential allergens , the AMA said .
Environmental research needs to include field research into the impacts of pesticide-carrying crops like Bt corn , to confirm or refute prior laboratory studies , the council said .
It also recommended the establishment of monitoring programs that would assess the effort to keep insects from developing resistance to pesticides .
A summary of the AMA 's report is available at : http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/article/2036-3604.html
For full text and graphics visit : ENS .




Media Makers Content to Interact

LAS VEGAS -- Interactive media companies are learning that it 's better to join 'em than try and beat 'em .
At the National Association of Television Program Executives meeting , TV executives and Web content producers who have been fighting each other for eyeballs are now looking at ways to create content that can be delivered both online and on-screen .
After last year 's epidemic of layoffs at Internet companies that overestimated the demand for Web content , media firms are looking to create entertainment that can also be delivered through TV and removable media .
" This is an organic convergence of technology , very similar to my dad reading the paper and watching television , " said Chris Swain , vice president of programming at Spiderdance , which creates Web content that can be synched to TV broadcasts .
Swain said people now spend 16 hours a week watching television , 12 hours surfing the Web , and six hours doing both .
" I started observing my daughter playing games like Final Fantasy and becoming emotionally involved in the experience , " said Paul Kafno , managing director of HD Thames , an independent television production company that works in digital video . "
She began connecting and talking about that experience . "
That set Kafno thinking about new ways to deliver content , such as electronic cinema .
In London , Toy Story 2 debuted using a digital delivery system that allowed the movie to be shown not with a traditional print , but a DVD -- or even a satellite system .
The typical movie print costs around $ 3,000 , and widespread rollouts require around 4,000 prints , he said .
Moving to a digital distribution network could provide alternative entertainment since theater seats are left empty between movies .
Kafno said theaters could create new revenues streams by filling up idle time with sporting events or interactive game nights .
Television channels are looking at repackaging their content and putting it online as another revenue opportunity .
At the Discovery Channel , interactivity between the TV and website is being used to generate more compelling content and draw in advertisers .
Debbie Stewart , vice president of Discovery Digital Networks , has spent the last seven years putting together interactive content for Discovery in Australia and New Zealand before coming to the United States to oversee the development of programming for seven online channels .
" Here is a new way for advertisers who would never make a buy on Discovery access to a very specific demographic that they want , " Stewart said .
to get
While some media companies have claimed the costs of digitizing content is prohibitive because of increased shooting , editing , and conversion to different formats , Kafno said the increased revenues from the new content will pay for itself .
" The additional costs for creating content can be reduced because the markets for the new shows will be increased , " Kafno said . "
If you end up going to DVD anyway , it 's good to have this recorded in high definition . "
" You do n't spend $ 100 million for a movie that is only going to show on PBS , " said Keith Boesky , principal partner at Boesky & Company , an entertainment consulting company .
While TV programmers wait for a substantial audience of interactive TV-equipped living rooms , Internet companies will try to lure customers with targeted entertainment over broadband .
" When the number of viewers begin coming , we 're not going to be running around in circles trying to figure out what we are supposed to do , " said Terrace Coles , the vice president of marketing at broadband company Intertainer .
Internet ventures are being approached by advertisers and talent who are eager to promote their products in interactive communities built around content .
" I have advertisers coming to me asking if I can create content that promotes their lifestyles , and that they can own as well , " said Coles .




Fruit Fly Key to Cocaine High ?

Are fruit flies the key to solving human 's addiction to cocaine ?
Scientists at Howard Hughes Medical Institute have found that the fruit fly , mostly known as the nemesis of California fruit farmers , possesses a protein in its nervous system that mirrors the effect of cocaine in human beings .
The Drosophila flies have a dopamine neurotransmitter that scientists can study to learn more about the biology of cocaine addition , said Dr. Susan Amara , a senior scientist with the Oregon Health Sciences University in Portland and an investigator for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute .
According to Amara , geneticists discovered that fruit flies have reactions to cocaine and many antidepressants that are similar to those of mice and humans .
" In future studies , we can select flies more sensitive to cocaine and study what was altered in them , which may tell us more about addiction , " Amara said .
Flies and humans have much in common , particularly from the viewpoint of genes and proteins .
" They may be similarities in neural pathways , " said Dr. David Bonovich , assistant professor in the Clinic of Neurology at the University of California at San Francisco . "
If you discover a direct link , you can use an animal like these flies to help build models for study .
Conducting studies on an animal like a fly is easier because you can use a lot of them and at a low cost . "
These discoveries were made possible by the mapping of the fruit fly genome .
Once the map of the Drosophila genome was completed , researchers could conduct experiments entirely on computer .
" Computer modeling is amazing .
You can analyze a genome and identify a sequence of genes extremely quickly , " Bonovich said .
A simple organism such as the fly makes this research much easier .
Not only is the entire genome available , the potential for new discoveries is increased by the speed of reproduction , and as a result , trait selection .
The benefits are n't present with studies using mammals , Bonovich said .
" There is fair interest in fruit fly genome as a key model organism for similar studies .
The behavior of these flies when exposed to cocaine is analogous to humans , " Amara said .
Neurotransmitters are the mailmen of the chemical instructions that the brain sends from neuron to neuron .
Dopamine is the chemical that cocaine and many antidepressants affect .
When these drugs are used , they attach themselves to the dopamine molecules , rendering them useless to the brain as instruction carriers .
With constant production of the neurotransmitter , the brain is unable to use it properly .
Dopamine builds up in the nervous system , producing the euphoria associated with cocaine use .
Specifically , dopamine possesses one transport protein that aids its movement , which researchers have dubbed the Drosophila dopamine transporter , or dDAT .
The discovery of this chemical assistant in Drosophila , which in itself is similar to the human version , only adds to the relevance of the study of the chemical effects of cocaine in the fly .




PCs in a Media Frenzy , Sort Of

The media revolution is coming to your PC -- but consumers are n't impressed .
yawn
That 's the news from Media Metrix , which earlier this week announced that 99 percent of all home PCs now contain a media player for watching video and listening to audio .
Virtually every new PC ships with a media player , but the percentage of people actually using their players is actually going down .
thanks largely to Microsoft now bundling its player with Windows
" As a result of aggressive bundling campaigns , media players and streaming media players are now installed on nearly every home PC in the United States , but growth of consumers usage of them is flattening , " said Media Metrix executive vice president Steve Coffey in a written release .
" To close the gap between what people can do , and what they actually do , the industry must continue to develop content and better delivery systems that encourage users to take advantage of the digital and audio capabilities they have . "
---
Managed subscriptions : When Bertelsmann laid out cash to Napster in a deal that will likely transfer controlling interest to the German media conglomerate , there was a buzz over what the new service would look like .
Napster CEO Hank Barry promised that Napster would remain Napster , with a free promotional aspect to it .
That future seems a bit less likely now that Bertelsmann 's Digital World Services division -- a group expected to work with the e-commerce sect in developing the new Napster -- proudly announced the unveiling of a digital rights management-based subscription service .
In the second quarter of this year , the company will launch the French Zoomzic.com , where customers can choose from a catalogue of 1,500 titles to download .
The model will offer a floating fee , depending on the amount of music downloaded per month .
Maybe the funniest part of the announcement at the Midem conference is Bertelsmann 's decision to launch the service in France -- the backyard of its bitterest rival , Vivendi , which owns the Universal Music Group .
held in France
Officials at Vivendi have publicly announced their intentions to compete against -- and never work with -- Bertelsmann 's entertainment ventures .
Let the games begin .
---
Napster nemesis no more : Maybe the recording industry is starting to see the benefits to be had in a Napster world .
TVT Records appears to have seen the light .
On Thursday , the independent label dropped its copyright infringement suit against the file-trading company and agreed to support Napster 's evolution under the watchful eye of Bertelsmann .
The company will allow Napster 's claimed 51 million users to trade TVT files without fear of legal action .
The move is akin to Russell Crowe 's Maximus winning over the crowd in the Coliseum , thus forcing the emperor to spare his life despite his desire to kill the Gladiator .
" I am afraid that copyright owners ' resistance to finding workable solutions with Internet music providers may result in consumers , artists and the industry itself ultimately being harmed , " said TVT Records president Steve Gottlieb . "
The future Napster offers the opportunity to reach music fans in unprecedented and as yet unimagined ways .
" Word-of-mouth has always been critical to breaking our artists -- now we have harnessed the power of the fastest growing ' word-of-net ' vehicle in existence , " Gottlieb said .
It is high time that the industry embraces a service that the public has so emphatically said they want . "
High time indeed .
...




Will the Hatemongers Survive ?

Desperate to survive in an increasingly hostile environment , hate groups are espousing a chilling new model of activism : the lone wolf .
Extremist groups have been crippled by lawsuits , infiltrated by law enforcement agents and rejected by the mainstream .
Now they are calling on individuals to act independently .
It works like this : The leaders supply individuals with the philosophical motivation for their hatred , and the lone wolves attack without jeopardizing the organization .
" The Internet is basically tailored to this kind of activity , " said Jordan Kessler , a senior researcher at the Anti-Defamation League . "
Hate leaders say what they wish to see happening and other people do their dirty work . "
In the old days , groups snail-mailed propaganda to their members .
Now they just create a Web page , so there 's no direct link to their adherents .
The goal is to keep the official connection hidden from law enforcement .
The Net permits them to disseminate their message instantly , inexpensively and worldwide .
" McVeigh is the classic example of what you call lone wolf or leaderless resistance , " said Mark Potok , a spokesman for the Southern Poverty Law Center , which has successfully sued eight hate groups for civil rights violations . "
Timothy
Less and less you see groups associated with criminal activity . "
The surge in hate crimes committed by individuals since the Oklahoma City bombing demonstrates that lone soldiers are effective weapons that easily flout law enforcement .
" We do n't have the ability or resources to track the lone wolf phenomenon , " said FBI special agent Steve Berry . "
An FBI agent can n't be assigned to every human being in the world or country . "
Tom Metzger , leader of White Aryan Resistance , describes lone wolves as " people who do n't go to meetings or rallies .
They simply operate as if they were parachuted behind enemy lines .
" We find ... more and more , we 're pushed into a corner where every group around is infiltrated with provocateurs , " Metzger said . "
The only way we can operate is in a lone wolf fashion . "
Metzger does n't promote violence , but he does n't discourage it either .
He qualified the 1998 dragging death of a black man in Texas as a waste of resources because the three racists who committed the crime will spend the rest of their lives in jail .
In his eyes , three white lives " were wasted " for the life of one African-American .
If you 're going to kill , choose your victims well , he says .
As an example , he offers : " If I had a big enough truck and could tie every illegal alien in the country to it and drag them back to Mexico , I 'd do it . "
Louis Beam , who was among the first neo-Nazis to preach the leaderless resistance , designed a chart to rank the value of minority targets .
" Now you can effectively judge proposed acts against the enemy , " the chart says .
Killing a policy maker , for example , is worth more points than offing your non-white neighbor .
If they rack up enough points , extremists earn the title of " Aryan Warrior . "
Matt Hale , the leader of the racist World Church of the Creator , calls violence counterproductive .
" I do n't have a moral problem with per se , but it arouses sympathy in the masses and against our cause , " said Hale , who refers to minorities as " mud races . "
violence




Big Cheeses Fear Net 's Power

DAVOS , Switzerland -- Bill Gates marveled at the " explosion " of young people using computers to talk and to share music , but other business leaders here worried Monday over the new power that the Internet has given consumers .
Corporate leaders on a panel at the World Economic Forum including major companies that own the copyrights to music being shared for free on the Internet documented the growth of the phenomenon .
The head of Sony said it represented a " danger " to legitimate companies .
The forum , an annual six-day meeting of about 3,000 business , government and cultural leaders , turned to business issues following a weekend that focused on peace prospects in the Balkans , Middle East and Africa .
" In the past year there 's been an explosion in real-time communication , " such as the exchange of music over the Internet fostered by Napster , said Gates , the co-founder and chairman of Microsoft .
Napster allows people to share music without paying copyright fees , a development that terrifies many industry chiefs .
Under the same principle , people could share videos , movies and even books in digital form .
" The Internet is a kind of power shift , " said Nobuyuki Idei , chief executive of Sony , which has extensive music copyright holdings . "
Now the consumer has more power than the company . "
Jean-Marie Messier , head of Vivendi , which last June acquired the Universal movie and music studios , said Napster 's key to success was " community and free access . "
Thomas Middelhoff , head of Bertelsmann AG , which has been working with Napster to assure payments to artists , said the Internet upstart already has 56 million clients , with 1.6 million exchanging digital music at any time .
Napster expects further growth to be rapid , he said .
Gates said young people are not just using the Internet to " chat " by punching their keyboards , but were actually talking through their PCs with telephone devices .
The flexibility of the PC made possible the Napster phenomenon of " peer to peer " communication , he said .
The necessary software for Napster came from a previously unknown developer , and it could be used because of the widespread availability and flexibility of the PC , Gates said .
Gates later took part in a discussion on the impact of disease on poverty , saying he was shocked by the small amount of money going into research and treatment of diseases in the world 's poorer countries .
" There is a real market failure here : a failure of visibility , a failure of incentives , a failure of cooperation that has led to a very disastrous situation , " said Gates , who on Saturday donated $ 100 million to research into a vaccine against HIV .
He pointed to the huge problems of HIV/AIDS , tuberculosis and malaria , especially in sub-Saharan Africa .
" Because it is constant and because it is large , it just simply does n't get much attention , " Gates added .
Henry McKinnell , president of the world 's largest drug company , Pfizer , said the pharmaceutical company wanted to help solve the problems , but there had to be an incentive to develop new drugs .
When work first began to treat AIDS , only one drug was available .
Now there are 50 , with another 100 under development , he said .




Disney to Ditch Web Portal

Walt Disney said Monday that it will close its Internet portal , Go.com , cutting about 400 jobs and taking a charge in the second quarter in a major overhaul of its online strategy .
The company will also dissolve its online tracking stock , Disney Internet Group , converting its shares into common stock of the parent company as of March 20 .
DIG
DIS
Under the terms of the conversion , each outstanding share of the tracking stock will be converted into a 0.19353 of a share of Disney common stock .
" The Internet continues to be a central focus of our company 's business strategy , " said Michael Eisner , chairman and chief executive officer in a statement . "
We believe this action should help us gain greater competitive advantage as we leverage Disney 's creative content , brands and other assets . "
Disney said it will take a charge of $ 790 million related to the write-off of intangible assets and an additional $ 25-50 million in charges on severance and the write-off of fixed assets because of the restructuring .
- - -
Dot-coms can n't stanch bleeding : Dot-com companies set a new record in January , cutting 12,828 jobs , a 23 percent increase over December 's record total of 10,459 .
Challenger , Gray & Christmas said Monday that since it began tracking dot-com job cuts in December 1999 , the firm has recorded 54,343 from 610 companies .
The report also shows 108 companies , or 18 percent , have closed .
While early dot-com job cuts were dominated by companies selling goods and services on the Internet , recent data suggests the companies that build and maintain the technological elements of the Internet as well as firms providing professional services , such as advertising and consulting , are being hit the hardest .
Internet technology-related firms dropped 3,132 , or 24 percent , of the January total .
Firms providing professional services to Internet firms announced 2,652 cuts in January , or 21 percent of the monthly total .
- - -
Oh , to be young again : Britain 's Pace Micro Technology and Japan 's Sega are releasing a television set-top box to allow on-demand access to Sega 's video games .
Pace said in a statement the new box gives digital TV customers access to hundreds of console-quality games with 3D graphics , digital sound and full motion video .
It will be marketed jointly to broadcasters and network providers worldwide , although no revenue is expected to be seen before June 2002 , the company said .
- - -
Pyramid scheme busted : The U.S. government said it has reached a $ 2.5 million settlement with the principals of a marketing company that claimed to sell nutritional supplements and beauty products , but was actually engaged in a nationwide pyramid scheme .
The company , known variously as 2 Xtreme Performance International , USAssurance Group/Akahi and AFEW , recruited a sales force with promises that participants could earn enough money to retire in two to five years .
However , most who signed up to sell the products lost money , the Federal Trade Commission said in its complaint .
Pyramid schemes are illegal money-making enterprises that earn quick profits by recruiting increasingly larger groups of salespeople or investors , who pay for the right to recruit more people .
In such schemes the recruiting , rather than the product the company reputedly sells , drives the firm financially .
- - -
H-P to cut jobs : Computer and printer maker Hewlett-Packard will cut less than 2 percent of about 88,500 positions in a marketing restructuring , a company spokeswoman said .
HWP
The cuts would involve more than 1,700 positions , with the exact number yet to be determined , Suzette Stephens said .
Plans for the cuts were announced this week in a company memo and will take place by the end of April .
Carly Fiorina , H-P 's chief exec , has said the company must reinvent itself , and her drive to do that has generally been hailed by analysts .
- - -
Gateway founder is new CEO : Personal computer maker Gateway said that Ted Waitt , the company founder and chairman , will replace Jeff Weitzen as chief executive , effective immediately .
Weitzen , who has been CEO since January 1 , 2000 , has announced his retirement , the company said in a statement .
- - -
Deal du jour : Maxim Integrated Products , an analog chip maker , said it has agreed to buy Dallas Semiconductor for about $ 2.5 billion in stock , giving it control of a specialty semiconductor maker .
Maxim said each Dallas Semiconductor share will be equal to 0.6163 shares of Maxim .
MXIM
DS
It expects the deal to close in the second quarter .
Maxim said it will cancel its existing stock repurchase plan because of the deal .
- - -
MJ , Great One get assist from Sportsline : SportsLine.com said it has bought some assets of MVP.com , an online retailer with ties to basketball star Michael Jordan and hockey star Wayne Gretzky .
The company also said it has tapped a USA Networks unit to operate its flagship Internet sports service 's online store .
- - -
Improved agility : Specialty software maker Ariba said it would acquire Agile Software in a stock swap worth about $ 2.55 billion to boost its position in the business-to-business market .
Under the terms of the deal , Mountain View , California-based Ariba will swap 1.35 of its shares for each Agile share .
Based on Ariba 's closing stock price of $ 40 on Friday , the deal is worth $ 2.55 billion , Ariba said .
ARBA
The deal values Agile stock at about $ 54 , a premium to its Friday closing price of $ 42-13/16 , but still way off its 52-week high of $ 98 .
AGIL
- - -
DaimlerChrysler gets out the ax : DaimlerChrysler AG will cut 26,000 jobs over three years at its U.S.-based Chrysler division .
As part of the restructuring plan designed to pull Chrysler out of the red , the company said it would cut about 20 percent of its North American work force .
The plan also calls for six manufacturing plants to be idled through 2002 .
- - -
NBA and RealNetworks ink a deal : RealNetworks and the NBA announced a multi-year agreement to deliver live Internet broadcasts of NBA.com TV and NBA.com Audio League Pass on RealPlayer GoldPass .
Reuters contributed to this report .




Documentary Details Dot-Com Death

They started with nothing -- empty computer boxes for furniture , a spare Manhattan loft space and a good idea .
Less than two years later , they had created a highly touted dot-com valued at tens of millions of dollars .
Anticipation was high , the future seemed limitless , but within a matter of months , GovWorks.com crashed and burned .
Documentary Startup.com goes inside one of the most prominent Internet flops , whose brief history included a White House visit and being burglarized in a case of suspected corporate espionage .
The film , which premieres this week at the Sundance Film Festival chronicles the startup that planned to help citizens interact with government services for things like paying parking tickets online .
The film , co-directed by Jehane Noujaim and Oscar-nominated documentary maker Chris Hegedus , opens as a Wall Street analyst named Kaleil Isaza Tuzman quits his job .
His goal is to start a new Internet company with his tech-savvy high school buddy .
It 's a stranger-than-fiction tale of ambition , broken loyalties , greed and teamwork that , according to Hegedus , was fortunate in its timing .
Filming began before the dot-com hype crested , and finished shortly after the crash of 2000 .
Hegedus , who previously collaborated with producer D.A. Pennebaker on the Oscar-nominated film The War Room , which tracked the 1992 presidential campaign , said she " lucked out " in the timing of the production .
" This was similar to when we began following music in the ' 60s , " Hegedus said . "
We just happened to start making a film about a subject that was quickly growing out of control . "
Hegedus and Noujaim used digital filmmaking equipment , shooting 413 hours of tape over the course of more than a year .
As a result , Startup.com offers remarkably comprehensive coverage of GovWorks 's personnel , from the boardroom to the bathroom .
There 's even footage of one partner being fired over the phone -- seen from the perspective of both terminator and terminated .
" We could never have shot so much footage if we were using film cameras , " Hegedus said , adding that film stock would have cost about 20 times as much as digital video .
" Instead of waiting around and doing nothing , you can play with these cameras , she said , noting that by leaving the cameras rolling they captured moments that they would have missed using film . "
It offers you a wonderful freedom . "
Startup.com is scheduled to be released theatrically in May .
----
Ford up and Atom : The oddest of the many partnerships announced at Sundance is surely the one between AtomFilms and the Ford Motor Company .
Atom said yesterday that it will help promote the new Ford Focus by giving the car what Atom called " a supporting role " in a number of short films .
Three of these films , including Jason Reitman 's Gulp , which is playing in the Sundance festival , are also being screened at AtomFilms All Access Lounge in Park City .
Ford and Atom make for strange bedfellows -- a huge automobile manufacturer and the scrappy Internet film channel recently acquired by Macromedia that has been known for showcasing independent films .
Insiders might be cynical about describing the deal -- which basically consists of product placement -- as a " partnership . "
But Seth Levenson , Atom 's vice president of sales , said that the Atom/Ford deal is different .
Ford completely funded the three films , Levenson said , and then stayed out of the way , allowing the independent filmmakers to work .
" It 's really breaking through to a new format , " Levenson said . "
For Ford , this will go beyond the magazine spreads , beyond the 30-second TV spots .
This is the kind of innovative digital marketing solution we hope to do more of . "




Adobe 's Novel Approach to E-Books

If Stephen King 's recent move to pull the plug on his e-serial The Plant is any indication , consumers are n't yet ready to read lengthy fiction off a small screen .
Software company Adobe believes that e-books will go beyond digital versions of novels and is working on technology that makes them useful tools for business travelers and students .
ADBE
On Monday , Adobe announced the release of its new e-book software , the Adobe Acrobat eBook Reader 2.0 .
Adobe also unveiled version 2.0 of the Adobe Content Server , a system that secures and prepares Adobe PDF files for online distribution and purchase .
" We do n't necessarily think that that 's the narrow range where e-books should be pigeonholed , " said Kevin Nathanson , group product manager for Adobe e-books . "
We look at it as part of a much broader universe . "
Adobe said that BarnesandNoble.com will feature a range of new Adobe PDF-based e-books on their e-book website .
Adobe will also sell books on its own e-books website .
Adobe entered the e-book fray in 2000 with its purchase of e-book software developer Glassbook .
But Adobe is taking a different approach from competitors such as Microsoft .
It will go after two target markets where it thinks e-books have the most value : the higher education market and the mobile professional .
Adobe is targeting students and business workers with Internet-connected computers .
They may not read an entire textbook or research report , but could readily use e-books to search multiple books , take notes or highlight text .
" We believe that the early adopters are people who have a value for time saving , and reducing the bulk of papers they lug around , " said Michael Looney , Adobe 's senior director of e-books .
So instead of focusing on the latest bestsellers , Adobe is bargaining with publishers to produce content that 's usually considered reference material .
Analysts say that 's the right approach .
" We see those as the growth markets that are going to bleed over into the consumer market , " said IDC analyst Malcolm Maclachlan .
While rivals Microsoft and RCA/Thomson race to convert titles into their respective e-book reader formats , Adobe hopes to appeal to publishers who have already published content in its Portable Document Format .
MSFT
PDF
" The vast majority of books that are printed today already exist in PDF , " Nathanson said . "
There 's a virtual universe of compelling content that 's available in the file format . "
Electronic pages captured in PDF look just as they would on paper , preserving all the fonts , graphics and layout .
PDF files can be read by Windows and Macs .
" If already PDF , you have a pretty good e-book right off the bat , " Nathanson said . "
a publisher
has files stored in
The costs of conversion are practically nil . "
Users will be able to download Survivor II : Field Guide exclusively as an Adobe PDF e-book before it is released in print .
The guide comes equipped with an interactive score sheet so readers can keep tally of who will be banished from the popular television show .
Adobe will feature mostly trade publication e-books and broader consumer titles on BarnesandNoble.com .
But the company is also working with educational publishers , institutions and the professional marketplace to develop titles .
Adobe 's e-books can also be printed , which according to the company is a significant advantage over competitors .
Publishers will be able to set up Adobe Content Server to determine whether users can print the e-books , copy them , or have them read aloud .
Publishers can also define how many copies of a book a user can make , if they can be lent out to other users , or whether books will expire after days , weeks or even a semester .
" Security is a big issue , " Maclachlan said . "
Book publishers do n't have a piracy problem right now .
But when you start talking about printing , people start to get nervous . "
While RCA/Thomson is marketing its e-book devices to the mass market , Adobe is betting that early adopters would rather download a device to a PC or laptop rather than buy a new piece of hardware .
" People may want to pick those up , but if we look at the penetration so far it 's still relatively minimal , it 's in the gadget category still , " Nathanson said .
of dedicated e-book devices
Nathanson is hopeful that the partnership with BarnesandNoble.com could lead to more downloads of Adobe e-books than for competitors that require dedicated devices .
Others are not so sure .
" I do n't think the laptop is going to be the main reading environment , " Maclachlan said .
But whether consumers decide to read e-books on laptops or dedicated devices , Maclachlan said Adobe will emerge as one of the trend-setters .




Porn in the Palm of Your Hand

SAN FRANCISCO -- Just downstairs from the Wired News offices , there 's a Tower Records outlet that offers a smorgasbord of pornographic magazines .
Ranging from the most wholesome adult fare to the kind that 's positively jail-worthy , the selection is remarkable even for San Francisco .
The problem is , Tower Records has placed the porn on a rack right next to the street , such that if one decides to sample the material , he or she is subject to the scrutiny of anyone who might be walking by .
So says Tony O'Neill , a 20-year-old college student who developed what he claims is a much better " adult content delivery system " than the porno mag : the porno Palm .
O'Neill 's service , called Palmstories , is offered as a subscription-based channel on Avantgo , a service that allows users of handhelds to read the news on their PDAs .
A year and a half ago , though , O'Neill said that he realized that handheld users wanted more than to just read the news .
" I thought , if people are moving into this handheld platform , there 's got to be a way to make money from it , " he said .
And one of the best ways to make money on the Internet is by providing adult content .
Due to the technical limitations of handhelds -- low memory , poor screen resolution -- the channel mainly offers stories , not pictures .
For $ 6 a month , O'Neill provides four new erotic stories a day , which he culls from the Internet .
The stories are your typical , melodramatic adult fare , with the women more buxom than in real life , and the men more brawny .
There are lines like " ... just the sound of that velvet voice was enough to get my pot steamed . "
But if this kind of thing sometimes sounds more funny than titillating , there 's reason to believe it gets the job done .
O'Neill has managed to sign up more than 8,000 people for his free demo site .
" A lot of business travelers like it , " he said . "
They are males , mostly age 18 to 35 , professionals -- and some military , and , actually , a lot of people from foreign countries .
Singapore is the second biggest subscriber after the U.S. "
But O'Neill is a bit disappointed that of the thousands who signed up for the demo , which offers one new story a week , only a few hundred have opted to pay for a subscription .
He believes that this is because of the limitations of the medium , and might change in the future .
" It 's too much of a novelty so far , for some people , " he said .
But O'Neill suspects that as handhelds get more entrenched in the culture , people will n't find getting adult content on their Palms so weird .




The Army Is Watching Your Kid

The Electronic Privacy Information Center has asked the Department of Defense to explain why it is monitoring the Web surfing habits of children using the Internet at school .
EPIC
An article in Friday 's Wall Street Journal prompted EPIC 's request , filed under the Freedom of Information Act , for all documents related to the department 's purchase of reports on student 's surfing habits from a company called N2H2 .
FOIA
The Journal reported that N2H2 , the leading provider of Web-filtering services to U.S. K-12 schools , is telling the department which websites students visit most while at school .
NTWO
" We 're very interested in knowing why the Department of Defense would want this kind of information , " EPIC Executive Director Marc Rotenberg said .
Other privacy advocates and foes of commercialization in schools expressed similar interest and concern .
Gary Ruskin , director of Commercial Alert -- a nonprofit group opposed to advertising and marketing excesses -- called N2H2 a " corporate predator " in a statement issued on Monday .
He also sent a letter to new Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld asking the department to stop purchasing Web traffic information from N2H2 .
N2H2 filters Internet content for schools that purchase its software , called Bess .
According to the International Data Corporation , Bess is the most popular Web filter with schools , with about 20 percent of the market .
N2H2 says it filters content for about 15 million students nationwide .
But the company is not profitable , and it recently began selling the information collected by its filtering servers .
N2H2 uses Web logs to determine the top 1,000 websites students visit each month and the length of the average visit to each site .
Surfing habits are then divided according to age group , nine geographic regions and population density .
For example , a subscriber to the database could learn where junior high kids in the rural areas of the Northeast click most .
This aggregate information is passed along to Roper Starch Worldwide , which packages and markets it as a product called Class Clicks .
While the notion of the military spying on kids makes privacy advocates shudder , N2H2 and Roper Starch say the concerns are unfounded .
" The fear that we 're selling names or something like that is a lot of media hype , " said Bob Pares , who markets Class Clicks for Roper . "
We do n't have that information .
The concerns that people have are a bit overdone . "
He also finds the interest of the Defense Department -- one of only two customers that have purchased Class Clicks so far -- less mysterious and ominous than privacy groups .
" Obviously , it 's for recruitment , " he said . "
The prime thing they want to do is communicate opportunities to people coming out of high school .
The military is interested in knowing how to talk to teenagers in new media settings . "
Ruskin , who researches advertising in schools , notes that the military is a top advertiser on the closed circuit television service Channel One .
The armed services ' difficulty meeting recruitment quotas over the past several years has been well publicized .
The department could n't confirm or deny if it had purchased the Class Clicks product .
The Army 's new ad agency , Leo Burnett -- hired to come up with a replacement for the retired " Be All You Can Be " campaign -- had n't heard of it either .
Pares said the Defense Department had only subscribed to the service about a month ago , and thought it quite possible it had n't yet been put to much use .
Assuming Pares is right -- the military is only trying to figure out where to place banner ads -- where 's the harm ?




Music Sites Like Napster Pay Plan

A new fee-based Napster is music to the ears of struggling entertainment sites .
On Monday , Bertelsmann executives announced that a version of Napster that requires a membership fee would be launched before the end of summer .
That 's good news for companies such as music guide Listen.com and MP3 retailer Emusic.com , where employees have said that the free file-trading service was destroying their business .
Various reports have indicated that a majority of Napster 's users would would abandon the service if fees were charged .
Napster CEO Hank Barry has said that even so , the company could still bring in revenues in the hundred millions .
One analyst said the overall impact on the demand for digital music would still be positive whether users abandoned a fee-based Napster service .
" I think having a paid Napster is a great thing , " said IDC analyst Malcolm Maclachlan . "
A paid Napster with only two million users would have to be considered a huge success for the industry .
Napster 's main problems are still legal .
Their chances of clearing those up by June look iffy . "
Emusic.com CEO Gene Hoffman said the fundamental shift from free to fee would give his company a fighting chance in the marketplace .
Emusic -- which sells licensed MP3s from artists like Elvis Costello and They Might Be Giants -- struggled to compete with the free service .
Hoffman said that Bertelsmann 's plan to charge for Napster would even the playing field .
" The reality of Napster going legit and secure is fundamentally the same as Napster being shut down by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals , " Hoffman said . "
It at least makes looking for music a shopping experience . "
Currently , the federal appeals court is determining whether to grant an injunction to the recording industry that would shut down the file-trading service while its copyright infringement case proceeded .
Either outcome would be good news for Emusic , which has seen its stock plummet to 50 cents per share and its workforce reduced by one-third .
EMUS
The company continues to press forward toward profitability , something Hoffman said he believed would happen when free access to music was finally halted .
" A lot of our scaling back has to do with the fact that we 're in an anomalous time , " Hoffman said . "
The fact that you can get anything under the sun for free is a true anomaly .
This would n't be going on in any other place where copyright is working properly . "
So Emusic plans to ride out the Napster wave , in hopes of surviving until the retail marketplace evens out .
Music directory service Listen.com was forced to re-evaluate its future when the free file-trading service came along .
Originally envisioned as the site users would visit to find out what the latest music online was and where it could be found , Listen.com instead found itself scrambling to make the company relevant in a peer-to-peer world .




Pink Slips Fly at Amazon

Amazon.com followed the rest of the Internet industry Tuesday , when it said it was laying off 15 percent of its staff as part of a plan to make the company profitable by the end of the year .
In an afternoon earnings announcement , the Internet retailer said it plans to eliminate 1,300 positions , marking the largest round of job cuts in the company 's history .
Amazon also said it would close its Georgia distribution center and a Seattle customer service center and take a restructuring charge of more than $ 150 million .
" I 'm sure that no company enjoys making such a decision , " said Jeff Bezos , Amazon 's chairman and CEO . "
It 's always difficult and painful , but it 's clearly the right business decision . "
But some employees cried foul , questioning why a big chunk of the cuts , nearly 400 , were made in at the Seattle customer service , the one area of the company that was trying to unionize .
Employees and local union arms center there -- alarmed at what they say are low wages , now-worthless stock options and heavy workloads -- have tried for months to form the company 's first bargaining unit .
" We believe some serious red flags are raised by the fact that the only customer service center impacted by layoffs was the one undergoing a union organization drive , " Marcus Courtney , an organizer with the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers , told reporters in a conference call .
Courtney , who does not work at Amazon , said WashTech would work with employees to gather information about the layoffs and eventually file a complaint with the National Labor Relations Board , the top federal body handling labor disputes .
" We are going to call for and demand an investigation as to why the most senior representatives are the ones most affected , " Courtney said , without elaborating .
But Amazon chief financial officer Warren Jensen said , " The reality is that we totally respect the rights of every employee in this company and we will continue to do everything we can to make this a great place to work .
The union activities in Seattle had absolutely nothing to do with the decision . "
The announcement put Amazon in company with a long list of Internet firms -- including ExciteAtHome , AltaVista and eToys -- that have announced layoffs this month .
ATHM
ETYS
According to the recruitment firm Challenger , Gray & Christmas , January was a record month for dot-com layoffs , with an estimated 12,828 jobs eliminated , not including the cuts at Amazon .
Amazon executives did not disclose how much money they intend to save by cutting jobs and closing facilities .
AMZN
However , but Jenson said the savings were factored into the company 's goal of turning a profit by the fourth quarter of 2001 .
News of the layoffs at Amazon came at the same time that the Seattle company posted a quarterly loss that was slightly smaller than Wall Street analysts had expected .
In the last three months of the year , Amazon lost $ 545 million , or $ 1.53 per share , compared with $ 323.3 million , or 96 cents per share , in the same period a year ago .
Excluding one-time items and goodwill , however , Amazon lost $ 90.4 million , or 25 cents per share for the quarter , compared with $ 184.9 million , or 55 cents per share , last year .
Wall Street analysts tracked by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected Amazon to lose 26 cents a share .
While Amazon is still best known as a bookstore , the company said sales are growing rapidly in its other departments .
Sales were up during the fourth quarter at its electronics , kitchen and tools , and hardware stores , Amazon said , with electronics ranking as its second largest U.S. store for the year .
In the first three months of the year , Jenson forecast sales of between $ 650 and $ 700 million , down from $ 972 million in its most recent quarter , typically the busiest season of the year for retailers .
Over the course of the year , Jenson said he expects Amazon sales to grow by 15 to 20 , compared to last year
Amazon executives made repeated references to their goal of making 2001 the year that Amazon turns a profit .
" We 've been asked thousands of times in the last five years by analysts , the media , and others : ' When is Amazon.com going to become profitable ?
' " Bezos said . "
Today , we 're comfortable answering those questions . "
Bezos added that Amazon will not be immune to a slowdown in the overall economy , but that he does not believe this will prevent the company from reporting a profit .
Still , investors did n't respond with glee to the latest disclosures from Amazon .
Its stock dipped 4 percent in after-hours trading to $ 18.13 .
Reuters contributed to this report .


